GOOD
EVENING EVERYONE AND WELCOME TO
THE SEPTEMBER 3RD MEETING
OF THE ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
>> I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE
FLAG OF AMERICA FOR WHICH IT
STANDS ONE NOT JUST FROM WHAT
CLARK PLEASE CALL THE ROLE
OF COUNCIL.
NO DISH HERE.
COUNCILOR HARRISON HERE
ELSEWHERE HERE ELSEWHERE WATSON
HERE ELSEWHERE WHERE DENHA HERE
,MCGAFFIGAN HERE.
MAYOR TAYLOR HERE OR ELSEWHERE
EITHER HERE OR ELSEWHERE HERE.
COUNCILOR BRIGGS HERE HOUSEWORK
NOW HERE WE HAVE A MAYOR.
>> THE MOTION IS TO APPROVE THE
AGENDA MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
ASKING MY COUNCIL MEMBER CARNEL
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA ON
FAVOR POSED THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED.
>> THEIR COMMUNICATION TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR
KNOW WHERE WE HAVE TO
INTRODUCTIONS TODAY.
THE FIRST FROM THE CHAIR OF THE
INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION.
AN UPDATE FROM CHAIR CARTER,
CHAIR CARTER.
GOOD EVENING, MAYOR TAYLOR.
MEMBERS OF THE COUNCIL, MADAM
CLERK, IT'S GOOD TO BE WITH
YOU.
I AM HAVE A LOT TO REPORT I
SUPPOSE IT'S NOT GOING TO TAKE
LONG.
WE WE HAVEN'T MET IMPACT DID
NOT MEET OVER THE SUMMER WE
WERE ALL FOR JULY AND AUGUST
AND OUR FIRST MEETING OF THE
FALL WILL BE THE FOURTH TUESDAY
IN SEPTEMBER.
BUT I'D LIKE TO REPORT THAT IN
OUR JUNE MEETING I WAS AGAIN
VOTED I SUPPOSE AS A CHAIR FOR
ANOTHER YEAR AND COMMISSIONER
OFMAN I'M SURE MANY OF YOU KNOW
HAS BEEN ELECTED AS THE VICE
CHAIR FOR THIS COMING YEAR SO
WE HAVEN'T HAD A VICE CHAIR FOR
A WHILE SO I'M VERY HAPPY WITH
THAT.
EVEN THOUGH WE DIDN'T MEET WE
CONTINUED OUR WORK FOR
COMPLAINT REVIEW.
AS YOU KNOW, COMPLAINTS COME IN
EITHER THROUGH THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT OR THROUGH IG PARK
AND WE CAN TAKE NO ACTION OR
REVIEW UNTIL AFTER THE POLICE
HAVE FINISHED THEIRS.
OUR COMPLAINT OUR COMPLAINT
REVIEW IS COMPLETED FOR TWENTY
TWENTY ONE, 22 AND TWENTY THREE
ALTHOUGH WE LOOKED BACK AT THE
YEAR TWENTY TWENTY WE SAW THERE
BECAUSE OF THE MAINLY BECAUSE
OF THE PANDEMIC AND WE HAD
SEVERAL OF THE COMMISSION LEAVE
DURING THAT TIME.
SO WE'RE GOING TO GO BACK AND
TAKE A LOOK ANOTHER REVIEW AT
SOME OF THE TWENTY TWENTY
COMPLAINTS WITH REGARD TO
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR WE'VE HAD
TWENTY TWENTY COMPLAINTS SO FAR
THIS YEAR.
I THOUGHT IT WAS SIGNIFICANT
THAT A NUMBER OF THOSE
COMPLAINTS HAD TO DO WITH THE
PROTESTS ON THE UNIVERSITY
CAMPUS.
THERE WERE THERE WAS QUESTIONS
AS TO WHETHER THE GENERAL
POLICE WERE INVOLVED AND IF SO
WAS TAXPAYER MONEY BEING USED
FOR THAT PURPOSE.
AND SO WE WERE WITH THE
DEPARTMENT ABLE TO RESPOND THAT
WE DID NOT TAKE PART IN THE
ARREST AND SO FORTH AT THAT
TIME AND THAT ANY EXPENDITURES
WHICH I DON'T THINK THERE WERE
I HAVEN'T HEARD.
BUT WE ARE REIMBURSED JUST AS
IF WE HELP OUT WITH FOOTBALL
GAMES.
SO BUT WE DID HAVE A NUMBER
OF OF THOSE REQUESTS.
WE ARE WORKING WITH THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT TO ESTABLISH A NEW
WAY TO LOOK AT ALL THE
COMPLAINTS THAT COME IN.
WE THINK WE CAN DO IT A LITTLE
MORE EFFICIENTLY SO A COMPLAINT
PROCESSING IS UNDER REVIEW.
SEVERAL OF US ATTENDED THE
CHIEF'S PROGRAM FOR THE
COMMUNITY IN JULY AND WHERE HE
DISCUSSED HIS VISION AND WE
CERTAINLY SUPPORTED I'D LIKE TO
JUST READ JUST THIS TO BE A
NATIONAL MODEL FOR EARNING
TRUST WITHIN THE COMMUNITY,
SAFEGUARDING LIFE AND PROMOTING
PUBLIC SAFETY THROUGH COMMUNITY
POLICING AND THAT IS WHAT WE
FULLY SUPPORT.
WE BELIEVE THAT COMMUNITY
POLICING IS THE WAY THAT ANN
ARBOR SHOULD PROCEED.
OTHER THAN THAT WE ARE ENGAGING
IN TRAINING.
I MYSELF RETURNED FOUR IN
AUGUST FROM A TRAINING
SITUATION AND SEVERAL OF OUR
COMMISSIONERS WILL BE GOING TO
THE NATIONAL OVERSIGHT BOARD
TRAINING AND THAT IS COMING UP
IN OCTOBER .
SO UNLESS THERE ARE ANY
QUESTIONS THAT IS OUR REPORT
FOR NOW.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, CHAIR
CARTER.
AND NOW A BRIEF INTRODUCTION
WITH RESPECT TO THE NEW CITY
FLAGGING RECOGNITION OF THE
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
BICENTENNIAL, I'LL BE JOINED BY
DENNIS ARCHER.
>> MR HALLON OVER.
>> GOOD TO SEE YOU.
SO AS EVERYBODY KNOWS, THIS IS
AN ARBOR'S BICENTENNIAL.
WE ARE TWO HUNDRED YEARS OLD AT
LEAST DATED ON BACK TO WHEN THE
VILLAGE WAS INCORPORATED BACK
IN TWENTY TWENTY FOUR.
THAT IS THE BEGINNING OF THE
HISTORY THAT WE WERE COUNTING
WITH RESPECT TO OUR
BICENTENNIAL AND WE HAVE A LOT
TO A LOT TO REFLECT UPON AND A
LOT TO BE EXCITED BY AND A LOT
OF PRIDE IN OUR IN OUR CITY AND
EVERYONE ALSO KNOWS THAT A
GREAT CITY DESERVES A GREAT
FLAG AND OVER THE COURSE
OF TIME WAS OBSERVED THAT OUR
PRIOR CITY FLAG DID NOT COMPORT
WITH COMPLETE VEXILLOLOGIST
PRINCIPLES WITH THE IT WAS A
SEAL ON A SHEET WITH WITH WORDS
AND THE CITY SEAL INCORPORATED
INTO INTO THE DESIGN AND SO WE
UNDERTOOK A CAMPAIGN TO TO
REDESIGN OUR CITY FLAG IN A WAY
THAT DID COMPORT WITH THESE
PRINCIPLES, SOME OF WHICH
INCLUDE THE ONLY TWO OR THREE
COLORS AND ELEGANCE OF DESIGN,
THE ABSENCE OF WORDS AND AND
RELEVANT SYMBOLISM TO TO THE
PURPOSE AND THAT EFFORT
INCLUDED WORK DONE WITH A
COMMITTEE JOINED BY HANANIA
WIGAN'S CHEAL GREEN QUIN
STRASSEL THE INDOMITABLE CLARK
BUJI AND OF COURSE ASSISTED ON
THE STAFF SIDE PRIMARILY BY OUR
OUTSTANDING VERNITA HARRISON.
SO I WANT TO GIVE EVERYONE IN
THAT REGARD A GREAT DEAL
OF PRAISE AND THANKS.
THAT PROCESS RESULTED IN IN
HUNDREDS OF SUBMISSIONS WHICH
WERE SUBSEQUENTLY WINNOWED BY
BY THIS COMMITTEE AND THEN PUT
OUT FOR FOUR POPULAR POPULAR
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT NOT
STRICTLY A VOTE BUT BUT THE
RESULTS THAT ENGAGEMENT WERE
CONSISTENT WITH THE COMMUNITIES
FIRE WITH THE COMMITTEE'S VIBE
AND IT WAS AH IT WAS AN
OVERWHELMING PREFERENCE FOR THE
FLAG DESIGNED BY MR SHERRED
RIGHT HERE AND IT IS HERE AND
WE'D LIKE TO LIKE TO UNVEIL IT
IF SO, I'M NOT UPSIDE DOWN
AND
YOU WILL SEE THIS SOON TO BE
FLYING OUTSIDE THE CITY HALL.
OF COURSE YOU'LL SEE IT HERE IN
CHAMBERS PROPERLY NOTED AND AS
SOON AS I CAN GET MY HANDS ON A
STICKER YOU WILL SEE IT ON MY
LAPTOP.
BUT TWO THINGS FIRST, I'D LIKE
TO PRESENT A EMERIL COIN BY WAY
OF THANKS.
THANK YOU.
YOU BETCHA.
IT HAS A CITY SEAL ON IT FOR
NOW PERHAPS WE'LL HAVE A FLAG
IN THE FUTURE BUT FOR NOW WE'RE
STUCK WITH THE CITY SEAL AND
THEN WORDS OF ENCOURAGEMENT IN
THE LANGUAGE OF OUR OF OUR TWO
SISTER CITIES TO BEGIN GERMANY
AND JAPAN AND SO SURE.
>> YEAH YOU HAVE A FEW WORDS.
YEAH NOT MUCH BUT A FEW.
I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT I
REALLY LOVE THIS TOWN AND OUR
COMMUNITY AND I'M PROUD TO BE
FROM HERE AND I'M JUST REALLY
GRATEFUL AND HONORED TO HAVE
HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE THE
NEXT FLAG TO REPRESENT OUR
CITY.
THANK YOU.
OUTSTANDING.
THANK YOU SO MUCH
.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL ON THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
AT PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE TIME
ONE NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES
WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU WHEN
THIRTY SECONDS ARE REMAINING
AND WHEN YOUR TIME IS EXPIRED
WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED
PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS
AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
CATHY GRISWOLD.
GOOD EVENING.
BEFORE I ADJUST THE ADDRESS THE
AGENDA TOPIC I JUST WANT TO
MENTION SOME GOOD NEWS ITEMS IN
ADDITION TO OUR FLAG.
ONE IS THAT PRESIDENT BIDEN
WILL BE VISITING ANN ARBOR ON
FRIDAY NO TO THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN HAS DECLARED THIS
YEAR THE YEAR OF DEMOCRACY,
CIVIC ENGAGEMENT AND GLOBAL
ENGAGEMENT AND THE LESSON A
CENTRAL STUDENT GOVERNMENT HAS
ALREADY AGREED TO WORK ON THE
RESOLUTION THAT WAS PREVIOUSLY
PASSED BY CENTRAL STUDENT
GOVERNMENT.
THERE WAS A RESOLUTION IN
SUPPORT OF IMPROVING PEDESTRIAN
SAFETY AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN PRIMARILY STREET
LIGHTING.
SO THAT'S GOOD.
THIRD CARD HAD A MEETING TODAY
AND PROGRESS IS BEING MADE ON A
RESOLUTION THAT I SUBMITTED A
COUPLE OF YEARS AGO ON THE EMS
FOR PERMIT REGARDING THE
DIAKITE DIOXANE IN THE ALENKA
DRAINE AND ALSO VAPOR
INTRUSION.
SO I'M SURE ALL OF YOU ARE
AWARE OF THE GALMAN PLUME AND
THE MAJOR ISSUES.
THERE'S ALSO SOME LEAKAGE INTO
THE ALLEN CREEK DRAIN AND SO
THAT'S WHAT THIS IS ADDRESSING
NUMBER FOR THE KING'S SCHOOL
ACROSS WALK.
WE'VE HAD A LOT OF DISCUSSION
BUT WE REALLY DON'T NEED TO
DISCUSS IT ANY MORE.
NO, I TRIMMED IT BEFORE SCHOOL
STARTED AND NUMBER TWO THERE IS
ONLY ONE THING THAT'S RELEVANT
TO THE KING SCHOOL CROSSWALKS
THE CITY HAS INSTALLED SCHOOL
CROSSWALK SIGNS.
SO REGARDLESS WHAT WE WANT TO
SAY ABOUT THIS UNLESS THE CITY
TAKES OUT ALL THESE CROSSWALK
SIGNS, THEY DID TAKE TWO
OF THEM DOWN.
BUT I THINK THAT IF THEY TOOK
THE REST OF THEM DOWN WHEN
STUDENTS ARE ACTUALLY WALKING
ON THESE CROSSWALKS, IT WOULD
BE MEAN SPIRITED.
SO ANYWAY, REGARDING THE
RESOLUTION TO HAVE BUSINESSES
IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD, I THINK
THAT'S A GOOD IDEA AND I THINK
IT REFLECTS WHAT'S ALREADY
BEING DONE IN SOME CASES.
HOWEVER, IF WE'RE GOING TO DO
THAT, WE HAVE TO CONTINUE TO
IMPROVE PEDESTRIAN SAFETY IN
THE NEIGHBORHOODS AND I CAN
TALK AT LENGTH ABOUT HOW WE GOT
HERE.
BUT REALLY ONCE ROGER FRAZIER
BECAME OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR
IN TWENTY TWENTY TWO THERE WAS
A HUGE STAFF REDUCTION.
MOST OF THE LIEUTENANTS
INCLUDING OLSON WHO IS NOW
OVERALL OF THE MICHIGAN STATE
PARKS LEFT THE CITY AND SO WE
BECAME THE CULTURE OF NO AND
THAT'S VERY UNFORTUNATE BECAUSE
NOW WE HAVE A LOT OF UNSAFE
CONDITIONS.
A PEDESTRIAN CRASH RATE IS THE
HIGHEST SINCE TWENTY FOURTEEN
AND LATELY WE'VE HAD PORTA
JOHNS PUT NEAR OUR CROSSWALKS
AND ON CORNERS IF YOU CAN'T
PARK YOUR CAR NEAR A CROSSWALK
STATE WALK 20 FEET, WHY IN THE
WORLD WOULD YOU THINK YOU COULD
PUT A PORTA JOHN THERE?
SO I'M OPTIMISTIC THAT WE CAN
IMPROVE SAFETY BUT WE'VE GOT TO
WORK HARD AND WORK TOGETHER
LIKE WE USED TO DO.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ASHAR
LOPATIN.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
MEMBERS OF A CITY COUNCIL CITY
OFFICERS MR. MAYOR, IT'S REALLY
AN HONOR TO BE HERE.
MY NAME IS RABBI ONKALO PATEN.
I AM THE RELATIVELY NEW
DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY RELATIONS
AT THE JEWISH FEDERATION
OF GREATER ANN ARBOR AND I JUST
CAME FROM A VIGIL ON THE DIAG
MOURNING FOR THE LOSS OF THOSE
SIX INNOCENT JEWISH YOUNG MEN
AND WOMEN GUNNED DOWN IN COLD
BLOOD AFTER BEING HELD HOSTAGES
UNDERGROUND FOR THREE THIRTY
DAYS.
ONE OF THEM HERSKOVITS POLAND
IS A DUAL AMERICAN ISRAELI
CITIZEN.
SO THIS THESE WERE DISCOVERED
IN A HAMAS TUNNEL ON SATURDAY
NIGHT BUT SUNDAY MORNING AS THE
JEWISH COMMUNITY BEGAN TO
ABSORB THIS SHOCK AND THIS
HEARTBREAKING NEWS , RESIDENTS
OF MULTIPLE ANN ARBOR
NEIGHBORHOODS WOKE TO FIND
ANTI-SEMITIC FLIERS LEFT ON
THEIR DRIVEWAYS BY MEMBERS OF A
SMALL NETWORK VIRULENTLY
ANTI-SEMITIC PROVOCATEURS
CALLED THE GOYIM DEFENSE GDL.
THEY OPERATE IN MANY STATES AND
THEIR PROBLEM AND THERE ARE
DANGER.
>> BUT THEN FLIERS THIS MORNING
ALSO FOLLOW THESE FLIERS FOLLOW
SEVERAL OTHER INCIDENTS LAST
WEEK INCLUDING VANDALISM OF THE
EMBRACING DIFFERENCES BANNERS
AT GALLOP WITH SULI THAT WERE
SOLID WITH EMBRACE REVOLUTION
FREE PALESTINE.
AND ISN'T THIS EXACTLY THE
SENSELESSNESS THAT EMBRACING
OUR DIFFERENCES WAS MEANT TO
COUNTER?
ON TOP OF THIS WAS A SERIES
OF OFFENSIVE STICKERS INCLUDING
A DEAD ZIONIST A DAY KEEPS
GENOCIDE AWAY PLACED ON THE
UAMS CAMPUS ALONG LIBERTY
STREET IN DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR.
SO THIS IS TERRIBLE PAIN AND
IT'S A PAIN FOR THE JEWISH
COMMUNITY IS IN PAIN.
THE PALESTINIAN COMMUNITIES IN
PAIN THERE ARE STILL HATEFUL
ANTI JEWISH PROTESTERS LINING
EVERY SATURDAY EVERY SHABBAT IN
FRONT OF BETH ISRAEL
CONGREGATION TO MAKE JEWISH
WORSHIPERS FEEL UNCOMFORTABLE
AND DESPISED.
WE'RE SO GRATEFUL FOR THE CITY
COUNCIL THAT YOU HAVE CONDEMNED
THAT BEHAVIOR.
BUT I HOPE THAT OUR CITY
COUNCIL CAN ONCE AGAIN CALL ON
THE GOOD CITIZENS OF ANSAR
CALVER TO REACH OUT AND LOVE
ONE ANOTHER AND BE SENSITIVE TO
ONE ANOTHER AND FEEL THE PAIN
AND THE VULNERABILITY OF JEWS
OR NON JEWS ALIKE AND CONDEMN
THESE VICIOUS ACTS OF HATRED
THAT HAVE NO PLACE IN OUR
COMMUNITY OR OUR SOCIETY.
THANK THANK YOU.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL COUNCIL MEMBERS
SONG
WE HEARD FROM A NUMBER
OF FRIENDS AND RESIDENTS WHO
RECEIVED UH I DON'T EVEN KNOW
IF YOU CALL IT RECEIVED.
IT'S MORE LIKE WAKING UP IN
YOUR IN YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD IN
FRONT OF YOUR HOME AND THEN
WORRYING THAT YOUR KIDS WILL
SEE THE VIOLENT MESSAGE IN THE
MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT IS A IS NOT
REFLECTIVE OF WHAT THE KIND
OF LOVE THAT WE WANT IN OUR
COMMUNITY THAT WE CELEBRATE IN
OUR COMMUNITY.
SO I'M REALLY SORRY AND I THINK
ALL OF MY COLLEAGUES FEEL THE
SAME AS WE'VE REACHED OUT TO
FOLKS WHO'VE BEEN HONESTLY
SCARED AND IT HAPPENS MORE
REGULARLY THAN WE THAN WE KNOW
ANYTHING AND THAT WE'RE AWARE
OF COUNCIL MEMBERS RECEIVE
POSTCARDS FROM THAT GROUP AT
OUR HOMES AND IT ISN'T RIGHT.
I'M REALLY SORRY.
UM, ONE THING THAT I'M
PERSONALLY INVOLVED IN I HOPE I
ENCOURAGE RESIDENTS TO
PARTICIPATE IN ALONG WITH ME IS
JEWISH FAMILY SERVICES WALK A
MILE WHICH IS ON A SUNDAY,
SEPTEMBER 29TH.
>> IN FULL DISCLOSURE I'M A I'M
ONE OF THE HOSTS FOR THE EVENT
BUT IT'S A REALLY GOOD
OPPORTUNITY TO MEET IN THE PARK
NEIGHBORHOOD WITH OUR NEIGHBORS
AND LOVED ONES AND UNDERSTAND
THE WORK THAT A SOCIAL SERVICE
AGENCY DOES EVERY SINGLE DAY
AND SUPPORT OF ALL FAITHS IN
RESETTLING MOSTLY MUSLIM
REFUGEES FROM AFGHANISTAN,
SYRIA AND THE CONGO AND OTHER
IN OTHER COUNTRIES.
SO THERE'S LOVE BEING PRACTICED
HERE EVERY DAY AND I ENCOURAGE
FOLKS TO WALK WITH US AND MAYBE
CELEBRATE AND RENEW THAT FAITH
AND LOVE.
THAT'S SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 29TH,
10:00 A.M. TO 12:00 P.M. JEFF'S
WALK A MILE FURTHER
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
CALAMAR ON BIRKA.
>> THANK YOU, MAYOR.
YOU KNOW, I ALSO JUST WANT TO
SAY THAT I CONDEMN THE ANTI
SEMITIC IN ITS FULLEST EXTENT
HORRIFYING TO HEAR CONDEMNING I
CONDEMN ALL HATE TO THE FULLEST
EXTENT AND I THINK IT'S REALLY
TRAGIC RIGHT NOW TO SEE THE
PAIN THAT'S BEING FELT BY OUR
JEWISH NEIGHBORS, BY OUR
PALESTINIAN NEIGHBORS.
I HOPE THAT WE CAN COME
TOGETHER WHEN THINGS LIKE THIS
HAPPEN AND REALLY SHOW SUPPORT
FOR EACH OTHER.
SO I AM SORRY FOR EVERYTHING
THAT YOU KNOW YOUR COMMUNITY
BOTH COMMUNITIES ARE ARE GOING
THROUGH RIGHT NOW.
I ALSO WANTED TO CHANGE
OF TOPIC JUST ACKNOWLEDGE
DISABILITY VOTING RIGHTS WEEK
WHICH IS COMING UP NEXT WEEK
AND THANK BOTH CLERK JACKIE
BEAUDRY FOR YOUR CONSISTENT
WORK AND AND HELPING TO PROMOTE
ACCESSIBLE VOTING PRACTICES FOR
ALL AS WELL AS ACKNOWLEDGED
CHAIR OF THE COMMISSION ON
DISABILITY ISSUES IZAK DAMON
FOR ALL YOUR WORK AND
ACCESSIBILITY THANK YOU FOR
THEIR COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL COUNCIL DENHA.
>> THANKS MAYOR AND THANK YOU
RABBI LOBATON FOR BEING HERE
AND FOR SPEAKING OUT TONIGHT I
ISSUED A STATEMENT OVER THE
WEEKEND ABOUT SOME OF THIS AND
SO I'M NOT GOING TO REREAD THAT
TONIGHT BUT THERE WERE A SERIES
OF INCIDENTS AS YOU POINTED NOT
AND NOT ONLY KIND OF THE
GRAFFITI THAT YOU MENTIONED THE
FLIERS THAT HIT PEOPLE'S HOMES
AND THEY WERE WAKING UP TO OVER
THE WEEKEND BUT ALSO GRAFFITI
IN OUR DOWNTOWN THAT CALLED FOR
VIOLENCE AGAINST ELECTED
OFFICIALS AND PUBLIC OFFICIALS
AND AND AND AGAINST JEWS BUT
AND TARGETED ALLEGED INCIDENTS
OF OF HARASSMENT AND ETHNIC
DISCRIMINATION HAPPENING AS
WELL OVER THE WEEKEND.
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO NOTE
THAT THIS GOES WELL BEYOND ANY
TYPE OF POLITICAL STATEMENT
THAT'S BEING MADE.
THIS IS A TARGETING OF THE
JEWISH IDENTITY ITSELF AND THAT
CANNOT BE NORMAL.
IT CANNOT BE ACCEPTED.
IT'S NOT WHAT WE STRIVE TO
CREATE HERE IN ANN ARBOR AS A
WELCOMING AND DIVERSE COMMUNITY
FOR ALL.
AND SO I NOT ONLY CONDEMN IT
BUT ASK THE COMMUNITY TO JOIN
US IN CONDEMNING IT AND TO
PUSHING BACK AGAINST IT BECAUSE
WE CANNOT LET THIS BE A NEW
NORMAL IN OUR COMMUNITY.
SO THANK YOU FOR HAVING THE
COURAGE TO STAND UP AND SPEAK
OUT AND FOR BEING HERE WITH US
TONIGHT.
>> COUNCILOR WATSON, I CONTINUE
TO BE SADDENED BY ACTS OF HATE
IN OUR COMMUNITY.
I'D LIKE TO THANK RABBI LOBATON
FOR COMING DOWN TO CITY HALL TO
SPEAK FROM THE HEART.
I RECEIVED SIMILAR MESSAGES
FROM CONSTITUENTS WHO ARE
JEWISH COMMUNITY LEADERS.
I AM SORRY AND I CONDEMN THESE
ANTI-SEMITIC ACTS.
ACTS OF HATE HAVE IMPACTED
MEMBERS OF ALL FAITHS ACROSS
OUR COMMUNITY AND THOSE WHO
HAVE NO FAITH.
MANY OF THESE GO UNREPORTED.
SADLY WE REGULARLY HEAR HATE
SPEECH IN THE FORM OF HOLOCAUST
DENIAL IN THIS CHAMBER.
NEVERTHELESS, HATE HAS NO HOME
HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
I'D LIKE TO THANK THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR WHO REACHED OUT
PROACTIVELY TO COUNCIL MEMBERS
IN THE WAKE OF THESE INCIDENTS
TO SHARE THAT THE CITY IS
TAKING THEM SERIOUSLY.
ON ANOTHER NOTE, PLEASE JOIN ME
FROM MY WARD TO LISTENING
SESSION SUNDAYS SEPTEMBER 15TH
FROM THREE TO FOUR THIRTY PM AT
SWEETWATERS ON PLIMOTH GREEN
THIS MONTH I'LL BE JOINED BY
PARK'S MANAGER JOSH LANDEFELD
WHO WILL TALK ABOUT ALL THE
WORK THAT GOES INTO MAINTAINING
OUR INFRASTRUCTURE AND
PROGRAMING OUR CITY PARKS.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANK.
AND I WILL ECHO MY MY
COLLEAGUE'S SENTIMENTS AND ALSO
SUGGEST THAT WHILE WE HAVE WE
HAVE STRUGGLED WITH HOW TO
COMBAT LEGALLY THAT THE HATE
SPEECH THAT OCCURS OUTSIDE
OF THE SYNAGOGUE ON A WEEKLY
BASIS IS JUST IT'S GROTESQUE
AND AND DISTURBING.
ONE THING THAT WE AS A
COMMUNITY COULD BE DOING IS IS
DEMONSTRATING OUR SOLIDARITY ON
A WEEKLY BASIS AND DIFFERENT
FAITHS COULD BE COMING OUT AND
AND BEING THERE TO TO SHOW
SUPPORT.
SO I KNOW IT'S IT'S I THINK
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT THAT EACH
OF US COULD PROBABLY TAKE SOME
TURNS DOING OCCASIONALLY ON A
SEPARATE NOTE AS WELL, WARD
FIVE IS HAVING OUR MONTHLY
LISTENING HOUR THIS COMING
SUNDAY FROM AT FOUR P.M. AT THE
END OF OUR ART CENTER ON THE
SECOND FLOOR.
SO WE WELCOME FOLKS FROM THE
WARD FIVE OR ANYBODY ELSE ANY
QUESTIONS TO COME OUT AND AND
JOIN US FOR AN HOUR AND ALSO
JUST WANT TO FINALLY SAY TO
DEPUTY CITY ADMINISTRATOR JOHN
FOURNIER WHO IS DEPARTING THE
CITY AND HEADING TO ALLEGHENY
COUNTY IN PITTSBURGH,
PENNSYLVANIA.
HOW MUCH I HAVE TRULY
APPRECIATED HIS SERVICE TO THE
CITY.
HE'S BEEN OUTSTANDING AND AS AS
JUST BEEN A JOYFUL AND EDUCATED
AND GREAT PRESENCE FOR THE CITY
AND HAS HELPED LEAD SO MANY
DIFFERENT INITIATIVES FORWARD.
MOST RECENTLY OUR ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT WORK IS REALLY
NOTABLE SO HE WILL BE MISSED
BUT I KNOW HE'S GOING TO BE
WELCOMED WITH OPEN ARMS OPEN
ARMS THERE IN THE PITTSBURGH
AREA.
CASTLEREAGH THANK YOU.
>> I'M GOING TO FLIP THE SCRIPT
HERE AND START WITH MY PRAISE
OF MR FOURNIER WHO I AM JUST
TERRIBLY SAD TO SEE LEAVING US
BUT VERY HAPPY FOR HIS NEXT
STEP IN ADDITION TO THE WORK
THAT HE'S DONE ON OUR ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY, MR.
FOURNIER HAS BEEN AN UNWAVERING
ADVOCATE FOR WORKERS BOTH CITY
WORKERS AND WORKERS IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
HE UNDERSTANDS THE ROLE
OF ORGANIZED LABOR IN MAKING
SURE THAT WE GET THE BEST
CONSTRUCTION POSSIBLE ON OUR
CITY PROJECTS.
THE BEST WORK POSSIBLE DONE AT
THE CITY AND ALSO UM YOU KNOW
THAT IT'S JUST GOOD FOR OUR
COMMUNITY TO WHEN WE ARE
SUPPORTING ORGANIZATIONS AND
AND CONTRACTORS THAT SUPPORT
WORKERS AND I REALLY VALUE ALL
OF HIS CONTRIBUTIONS IN HELPING
US MOVE FORWARD ON OUR BEST
VALUE PROCUREMENT POLICY AND
OTHER THINGS THAT WE'VE DONE IN
SUPPORT OF WORKERS IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
I DO WANT TO TAKE A MINUTE AS
WELL TO EXPRESS MY DEEP OUTRAGE
AT THE THE FLIERS THAT WE'VE
SEEN, THE MAILINGS THAT WE'VE
RECEIVED, THE STICKERS, THE ALL
CONDEMN ONCE AGAIN THOSE WEEKLY
PROTESTS AT THE SYNAGOGUE.
AGAIN, I WISH WE COULD DO MORE
TO IT.
YOU KNOW, IT ABSOLUTELY
INFURIATES ME THAT GENERATIONS
NOW OF CHILDREN HAVE GROWN UP
GOING TO WORSHIP EVERY WEEK
UNDER THOSE CONDITIONS.
IT'S NOT RIGHT.
IT'S ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
ABSOLUTELY CONTINUES TO BAFFLE
ME ABOUT THIS COMMUNITY THAT
THAT IT HAPPENS AND THAT
ANTI-SEMITISM IS STILL JUST
ACCEPTED HERE FOR SOME REASON
BY SO MANY.
SO IT'S NOT BY ME.
IT'S NOT BY THIS COUNCIL.
>> I KNOW.
AND AND YOU KNOW, WE'RE READY
TO TO TAKE WHATEVER NEXT STEP
WE CAN TAKE TO TO COMBAT HATE
WHETHER ANTI-SEMITISM, WHETHER
IT'S YOU KNOW, ANTI ARAB
SENTIMENT, WHATEVER IT IS YOU
KNOW, I WANT I WANT A PEACEFUL
COMMUNITY TO THANK YOU FOR
THEIR COMMUNICATIONS IN
COUNCIL.
>> A COUNCIL MEMBER, DESH YEAH.
JUST UM I WANT TO UH I REALLY
APPRECIATED COUNCIL MEMBER
EDINA'S FORMULATION THAT IT IS
REALLY IMPORTANT THAT
ANTI-SEMITIC EXPRESSIONS AND
HATEFUL EXPRESSIONS OF ALL
KINDS NOT BE A NEW NORMAL IN
THIS CITY
.
THEY ARE HAPPENING FREQUENTLY
AND THAT'S BAD AND INSPIRED BY
MY COLLEAGUE.
I ALSO WANT TO PAY TRIBUTE TO
OUR, UH, DEPARTING DEPUTY CITY
ADMINISTRATOR AND I CAN DO NO
BETTER TRIBUTE THAN QUOTE A
SENTENCE THAT I QUOTE
FREQUENTLY TO MY STUDENTS TO
COLLEAGUES IN POLITICAL SCIENCE
AND THAT IS THIS I HOPE I SORRY
IT IS A IT IS A SENTENCE THAT I
LOVE SO MUCH THAT MAKES ME
CHOKE UP.
BUT I VOTED BUT UNCOUNTED
BALLOT IS PERHAPS THE SINGLE
MOST VALUABLE ITEM OUR CITY
WILL EVER HAVE IN ITS
POSSESSION.
WE HAVE A LOT OF EXPENSIVE REAL
ESTATE BUT THIS IS WHAT HE PUT
FORWARD IN THE MEMO THAT WE
RECEIVED AS WE DELIBERATED THE
NEW ELECTION CENTER WHICH
SUPPORTS OUR REMARKABLE
ADVANCES FOR VOTING AND AND
VOTING EXCUSE ACCESS.
AND SO I WILL MISS SOMEONE WHO
CAN WRITE SENTENCES LIKE THAT
OR THEIR COMMUNICATIONS FROM
COUNCIL ARE CERTAINLY I
COMMENTED ON THE LAST WEEKEND'S
HAPPENINGS OVER THE COURSE
OF THE WEEKEND BUT I DO WANT TO
TOUCH UPON THEM BRIEFLY HERE WE
HAVE WITH FLIERS AND STICKERS
AND YOU KNOW, GRAFFITI AND WITH
PERSONAL AGGRESSION BOTH YOU
KNOW, EVERY SHABBAT AND
ELSEWHERE A TARGETING OF ANN
ARBOR JEWS WITH WITH
SPECIFICITY IT INCREASES LEVELS
OF PERSONAL STRESS AND CRISIS
AND IT IS AT A NEW AND IF EVEN
FURTHER UNACCEPTABLE LEVEL AS
THOSE ACTIONS OCCUR.
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO NOTE
THAT IN ADDITION THAT THIS IS
NOT A PROBLEM OF EVENT ARBOR'S
JEWS IS A PROBLEM OF ANN ARBOR.
THE THE ATTACKS ON PART OF US
WORK TO DEGRADE COMMUNITY
COHESION AND UNDERCUT THE
FUNDAMENTAL VALUE OF PLURALISM
UPON WHICH I THINK THE BEST
OF ANN ARBOR RESTS.
THIS IS A FIGHT THAT ALL OF US
HAVE A PART AND I AM EAGER TO
SEE HOW THE COMMUNITY RESPONDS
BECAUSE IT IS NECESSARY
IN
ADDITION TO TO THAT I DO ALSO
WANT TO, YOU KNOW, LAVISH MY MY
LITTLE BIT OF PRAISE UPON
DEPUTY ADMINISTRATOR FOURNIER
WHO LEAVING US WE TALK YOU
KNOW, PROPERLY HERE WHAT WE DO
HERE AT THE CITY COUNCIL AND WE
DO DO A FAIR BIT.
I YOU KNOW, I WILL NOT I WILL
NOT GAINSAY THE EFFORT AND
INGENUITY AND VISION OF OF
OF MY COLLEAGUES.
>> HOWEVER, EVERYTHING WE DO IS
IS DONE THROUGH STAFF AND YOU
KNOW, IT IS A CONSTANT PLEASURE
TO WORK WITH WITH PROFESSIONAL
AND COMMITTED AND EXPERIENCED
FOLKS OF STAFF MEMBERS
OF VISION AND GOOD CHEER AND
COMMITMENT TO DOING THE WORK
OF OF GOVERNMENT FOR EVERYONE
AND YOU KNOW, AT THE AT THE
WITHOUT LOOKING TO RANK THE
MANY STAFF MEMBERS WITH WHOM I
WORKED MERELY MERELY LET ME SAY
THAT I COULD NOT BE MORE
DELIGHTED THAT MR. FOURNIER HAS
HAS FOUND A LARGER JOB WHICH
WILL UPON WHICH TO TO EXERCISE
HIS SKILLS AND EXCITEMENT.
HE'S BEEN AN INCREDIBLE SERVANT
FOR THE CITY ARBOR.
HE'S BEEN AN INCREDIBLE
COLLEAGUE WITH WHICH WITH WHOM
TO WORK AND IT'S MY EXCITEMENT
FOR HIM AT HIS NEXT STEP IS
ONLY MATCHED BY MY SORROW AT
HIS DEPARTURE.
>> I'D LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE
FOLLOWING NOMINATIONS FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO THE ELIZABETH
FUND COMMITTEE ROBERT DAVENPORT
TO THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
DREW DOESN'T MAKE THE MOTION
PLEASE MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELL STAND BY.
>> COUNCILMAN ACKMANN
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED IS
APPROVED.
WE HAVE TO FORCE THE CONSENT
AGENDA, MOVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE CONSENT AND MOVE BY
COUNCIL BRITISH SECURITY
COUNCIL MEMBER A DENHA
DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA COUNCIL MEMBER KORNEV
THANK YOU.
I JUST WANT TO MAKE A QUICK
NOTE ABOUT C A TWENTY.
>> THIS FEELS LIKE IT'S A
LITTLE BIT BURIED AT THE VERY
END OF THE CONSENT AGENDA BUT
IT'S ACTUALLY REALLY WELCOME
AND AWESOME NEWS FOR DOWNTOWN.
AT OUR LAST MEETING IT CAME
BEFORE US TO CREATE A NEW
SOCIAL DISTRICT FOR THE STATE
STREET AREA AND I AM INCREDIBLY
GRATEFUL THAT THE MAIN STREET
AREA ASSOCIATION AND THE STATE
STREET DISTRICT WORKED TOGETHER
TO CREATE A UNIFIED SOCIAL
DISTRICT FOR DOWNTOWN.
>> SO FOR FOLKS WHO LIKE TO
COME DOWN ON THE WEEKEND AND BE
ABLE TO VISIT OUR HOSPITALITY
BUSINESSES AND ALSO WANDER
AROUND AND ENJOY RETAIL AND
EVERYTHING THAT MAKES DOWNTOWN
SUCH A GREAT PLACE TO HANG OUT.
NOW YOU HAVE A VERY LARGE
WALKING AREA WITH WHICH YOU CAN
TAKE YOUR BEVERAGES TO GO FROM
PARTICIPATING RESTAURANTS AND
GO VISIT PARTICIPATING
RETAILERS.
THIS WAS A HEAVY LIFT BY THE
MAIN STREET AREA ASSOCIATION
AND THE STATE STREET DISTRICT
VERY DEEPLY APPRECIATIVE
OF THEIR TIME AND OF THE CITY
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE, PARTICULARLY
MR. RICER WHO PUT A LOT OF TIME
AND EFFORT INTO MAKING THIS A
SUCCESS.
>> I THINK IT'S A GREAT WAY TO
MARKET OUR DOWNTOWN AND IT'S A
GREAT WAY TO GET PEOPLE TO COME
DOWN AND VISIT AND STAY
DOWNTOWN.
>> SO MY GRATITUDE THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
CONSENT AGENDA COUNCIL MEMBER
SYRIANI FOR FURTHER DISCUSSION
OF THE CONSENT AGENDA.
I'D LIKE TO JUST BRIEFLY UPLIFT
CANINE WHICH IS A GRANT
AGREEMENT WITH THE STATE TO
ACCEPT GRANT FUNDS FOR THE
PURPOSE OF HELPING FUND ANN
ARBOR CLIMATE CORPS WHICH IS AN
AMERICORPS PROGRAM.
WE OF COURSE HAVE OUR EIGHT TO
ZERO PROGRAM TO ACCOMPLISH
COMMUNITY WIDE
CARBON NEUTRALITY BY 2030
THROUGH JUST AN EQUAL MEANS AND
SO MUCH OF THAT REQUIRES THAT
WE AFFECT COMMUNICATIONS TO
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC AND THAT
WE DO WHAT WE JUST DO A WHOLE
HOST OF THINGS.
AND WHILE EXISTING STAFF IS
OUTSTANDING UP AND DOWN THE
LINE, THEY DO NEED OCCASIONAL
HELP AND THE THE AMERICORPS
PROGRAM IS JUST A GREAT PLACE
TO DO IT.
IT GIVES YOUNG PEOPLE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO GET INVOLVED
HELPING ACCOMPLISH AN EIGHT TO
ZERO TWO ZERO GOALS AND I JUST
COULDN'T BE MORE EXCITED AND
PROUD THAT WE AT THE CITY ARE
TAKING ADVANTAGE OF OUR MORE
ACCURATELY PERHAPS AVAILING
OURSELVES OF THE OPPORTUNITY
FOR THESE GRANT FUNDS AND JUST
WANT TO THANK STAFF FOR ALL
THEIR GREAT AND GOOD WORK IN
GETTING THAT ACCOMPLISHED FOR
THE DISCUSSION OF THE INCENTIVE
JUMP ALL IN FAVOR OF THE
CONCEPT THE AGENDA WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF C A NINETEEN
PLEASE.
I OPPOSED THE CONSENT AGENDA
WITH THE EXCEPTION OF C
NINETEEN IS APPROVED WITH
ELEVEN COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
ALL VOTING IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
THAT SATISFIED THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO A
THREE CANINE C A TEN
THAT IS
ALL C A NINETEEN RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE THE MARIJUANA EXCISE
TAX REBATE FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY BANABA AND THE
REGIONS THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN ON BEHALF
OF MICHIGAN MEDICINE MOVED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRIS AND
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE GIVE ME A
NINETEEN CASPERSON.
I JUST WONDERED IF THERE IS
STAFF MAYBE AVAILABLE TO SPEAK
SURELY AND MR. TONY POSSIBLY
MAYOR MARTY PACHON WILL BE
JOINING US ON ZOOME EXCELLENT
GOVERNOR.
GOOD EVENING.
I JUST WONDERED IF YOU COULD
SPEAK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THIS
ITEM AND TALK A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT THE INTENDED OUTCOMES
THAT WE ARE LOOKING FOR WITH
THIS RESOLUTION.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU CAN OR WELL
I WOULD I WOULD IN GENERAL SAY
THAT WE WERE LOOKING TO
LEVERAGE EXISTING PROGRAMS
WHERE WE COULD PUT THE MONEY TO
USE IMMEDIATELY AS OPPOSED TO
STANDING UP PROGRAMS ON OUR OWN
WHICH WOULD TAKE CONSIDERABLY
LONGER TO PUT THE MONEY TO USE.
AND THIS WAS IN GENERAL PART
OF THE BUDGET DISCUSSION THAT
CITY ADMINISTRATOR TONY HAD
WITH COUNCIL ON HIS INTENTION
TO USE THOSE FUNDS IMMEDIATELY
TO PROVIDE BENEFITS TO THE
COMMUNITY.
OK, THANK YOU.
>> I THINK
CONSIDERED FOR
BROADER CONTEXT SO THIS CAME UP
AS WE WERE LOOKING AT THE
VARIOUS USES OF THE LIMITED
FUNDING THAT WE HAVE AND TO MR.
SHARON'S POINT WE WERE LOOKING
TO LEVERAGE DOLLARS FROM THE
CITY TO GO FURTHER THAN WE
WOULD BE ABLE TO.
SO THERE WAS A SERIES
OF INTERACTIONS THAT I HAD WITH
THE LEADERSHIP AT MICHIGAN
MADSEN ABOUT EXISTING
PROGRAMS
THAT THEY WERE DOING THAT WERE
PROVIDING SUPPORT FOR PEOPLE
THAT WERE RECEIVING INPATIENT
CARE AND NEEDED ASSIST AS THEY
TRANSITIONED HOME PEOPLE THAT
ARE SUFFERING WITH ADDICTIONS.
SO WE TALKED ABOUT VARIOUS WAYS
TO DO THAT AND THAT WAS THE
APPLICATION THAT I BROUGHT
FORWARD TO IN THE BUDGET
PROCESS.
>> SO THIS SO FOR LIKE YOU,
MATT, IS THIS ARE THESE IS THIS
PROGRAM ESSENTIALLY GOING TO
INTERSECT WITH THE UMASS
PROGRAM WHICH IS YOU KNOW, OUT
OF THE IT'S OUT OF THE RACHEL
OF SEAN UPJOHN BUILDING.
I KNOW THAT CURRENTLY THEY HAVE
THEY HAVE OUTPATIENT SERVICES
THAT THEY PROVIDE TO
INDIVIDUALS THAT ARE IN
RECOVERY .
I CAN'T SAY THAT THAT THAT
SPECIFIC INTERSECTION WILL
OCCUR A NUMBER OF THE PATIENTS
THAT WE'RE REFERRING TO TO BE
HELPED WITH THIS PARTICULAR
ITEM ARE PEOPLE THAT COME INTO
THE HOSPITAL THROUGH THE
EMERGENCY ROOM.
THEY NEED VARIOUS TYPES
OF MEDICATION AND KITS WHEN
THEY GO HOME AND TODAY OR PRIOR
TO THE FUNDING THAT DID NOT
EXIST.
IT'S ALL WE'RE PAYING FOR THE
CREATION AND THE STOCKING
OF THOSE MEDICATIONS THAT THEY
NEED TO HELP THEM STAY OFF ONCE
THEY LEAVE THE CONFINES OF THE
HOSPITAL PROPER.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
THAT SOUNDS REALLY GREAT.
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNSELOR
BRIGS, I JUST WONDER STATE HOW
GRATEFUL I AM TO THAT
ADMINISTRATOR TAHANI FOR
LOOKING FOR OPPORTUNITIES TO BE
ABLE TO ADDRESS SUBSTANCE ABUSE
DISORDERS THAT WE'RE SEEING.
>> I KNOW ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT WE'RE HEARING SO MUCH FROM
SOCIAL SERVICE AGENCIES IS THE
RISE OF MENTAL HEALTH ISSUES
AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE ISSUES AND
EVERY COMMUNITY ACROSS THE U.S.
OR MANY COMMUNITIES ACROSS THE
U.S. ARE DEALING WITH THE SAME
ISSUE.
WE'RE CERTAINLY SEEING IT PLAY
OUT ACROSS OUR OWN COMMUNITY
AND SO FIGURING OUT WAYS THAT
WE CAN BETTER SUPPORT FOLKS WHO
ARE IN CRISIS WITH THE PROGRAMS
THAT ARE THAT ARE EXISTING IS
GREAT TO SEE.
SOME WILL BE CURIOUS TO TRACK
THIS PROGRAM AND SEE SEE
HOPEFULLY IT'LL BE HELPFUL TO
OUR COMMUNITY MEMBERS IN NEED.
COUNSELOR ROSOL OH I JUST WANT
TO NOTE THAT THIS IS THIS IS
YOUR THIS IS FUNDING THAT WOULD
THIS IS A PROGRAM THAT WOULD BE
WOULD HAVE TO BE RENEWED WITH
THE NEXT MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX
REVENUE WHEN IT COMES FORWARD
AGAIN.
RIGHT.
SO THIS IS NOT AN ONGOING
PROGRAM PROGRAMMATIC EFFORT
WHICH MEANS OTHER COMMITTEE
MEMBERS COULD STEP UP AND HELP
FUND SAVE THE COUNTY OR
MICHIGAN.
MADSEN SAW THE THE IMPACT THAT
THIS WILL MAKE IN OUR COMMUNITY
PERHAPS AT SOME POINT IF WE'RE
LOOKING AT LONG TERM CARE AND
RECOVERY .
RIGHT.
TO TO MAKE SURE FOLKS ARE WELL
AFTER THE RELEASE FROM THE E.R.
AND HOUSED IN STABLE INSTEAD
OF JUST RELYING ON SAY AVALON
HOUSING AND OTHERS DIRECT
SERVICE PROVIDERS PERHAPS THIS
IS A PROGRAM THAT MUNICIPAL
FUNDING CAN CONTINUE TO FUND
ALONGSIDE OTHER MUNICIPALITIES
AS THAT CONVERSATION STARTED OR
HAPPENED
, IT HASN'T HAPPENED TO
MY KNOWLEDGE.
>> ONE OF THE OTHER THINGS THAT
THE CITY FUNDING IS DOING IS
PAYING PART OF THE COST FOR A
NURSE TO PROVIDE STRONGER LEVEL
OF SUPPORT WITH HELPING PEOPLE
TO UTILIZE THE MEDICINE
MEDICATIONS THAT THEY NEED WHEN
THEY LEAVE.
AND I GUESS IT'S FAIR TO SAY
GOING TO COUNSELING MEMBER
BRIGGS POINT WE DECIDED TO SORT
OF ROLL UP OUR SLEEVES AND GO
FROM SCRATCH WITH MICHIGAN
MEDICINE, YOU KNOW, REGARDLESS
OF WHATEVER WE DID BEFORE HELP
US UNDERSTAND HOW YOU'RE
SERVING PEOPLE IN THE E.R. AND
WE KEPT TALKING AND TALKING AND
THAT'S WHAT LED US TO TRYING TO
USE OUR FUNDING TO FILL A GAP
THAT EXISTED.
WE HAVE NOT INITIATED ANY
DISCUSSIONS WITH ANY OTHER
JURISDICTIONS.
WE'RE SIMPLY TRYING TO LEVERAGE
THE LIMITED DOLLARS THAT WE
HAD.
>> I APPRECIATE IT.
THANK YOU.
MAYBE OUR COLLEAGUES WHEN WE
SEE OTHER COLLEAGUES WE CAN
BRING THIS UP SO THANK YOU.
>> CAN'T REMEMBER OF DENHA
LARRY.
TAKE FURTHER COMMUNICATION,
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
OUR FAVORITE POST IT IS
APPROVED WE NOW COME TO A SET
OF PUBLIC HEARINGS.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING TO SPEAK
AT A PUBLIC HEARING YOU NEED
NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE
BUT YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO
THE SPECIFICS SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING THAT IS
TO SAY THE THE THE ITEM ON THE
AGENDA TO WHICH THE PUBLIC
HEARING RELATES SPEAKERS IN ALL
INSTANCES WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU WHEN
THIRTY SECONDS ARE REMAINING
AND WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED,
WHEN YOUR TIME IS EXPIRED,
PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS
AND CEDE THE FLOOR PUBLIC
HEARING NUMBER ONE AN AUDIENCE
TO AMEND SECTION ONE ONE SEVEN
FIVE THREE ONE ONE EIGHT FIVE
THE CHAPTER EIGHT ORGANIZATION
OF BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
OF TITLE ONE ADMINISTRATION
OF THE CODE THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR PLANNING COMMISSION
MODIFICATION MODIFICATIONS.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS OR ANYONE ONLINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
MAYOR, I DO NOT HAVE ANY
CALLERS WITH THEIR HANDS RAISED
SEE NO ON THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING NO TO
ADD NORDEN'S TO AMEND SECTION
FIVE TEN POINT TWO OF CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE OF TITLE FIVE OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
REZONING FIFTY NINE PARCELS IN
THE WASHTENAW AVENUE E STADIUM
BOULEVARD AREAS UTC ONE TRANSIT
CORRIDOR DISTRICT.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
?
HELLO THANK YOU FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK THIS
EVENING.
MY NAME IS BLAIR CURTIS.
I LIVE AT THIRTY FOUR EIGHTY
WOULD DELCOURT AND THE WOOD
CREEK HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION.
I AM THE PRESIDENT OF THE
ASSOCIATION.
I KNOW A NUMBER OF THE
RESIDENTS OF OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
HAVE WRITTEN EMAILS IN THE LAST
COUPLE OF DAYS REGARDING THIS
PROPOSAL AND I JUST I DID AS
WELL BUT I'M HERE TO JUST
REITERATE THAT WE'VE ADVOCATED
FOR APPROPRIATE DEVELOPMENT IN
THE AREA AND PARTICULARLY
OF THE PROPERTY THAT'S ADJACENT
TO BOTH OUR NEIGHBORHOOD WOOD
CREEK AND OUR LAND FOR OVER TWO
DECADES.
AND UNFORTUNATELY I DON'T THINK
THE ONE ZONING IS APPROPRIATE.
A WASHTENAW CONTINUES TO BE IN
OUR PARTICULAR SEGMENT
EXTREMELY CONGESTED OR REALLY
CONGESTED.
I DON'T BELIEVE AND OUR
NEIGHBORS DON'T BELIEVE THAT
HIGHER DENSITY DEVELOPMENT IS
GOING TO MAKE THE SITUATION
BETTER AND WHETHER IT'S MORE
VEHICLES OR MORE PEDESTRIANS OR
MORE BUSSES THAT'S GOING TO
MAKE IT WORSE.
AND IN ADDITION, WE ARE NOT
EXCITED ABOUT THE POTENTIAL FOR
MORE SUNLESS CORRIDORS AND IN
OUR AREA THAT WE DON'T WE'LL
MAKE IT AN ATTRACTIVE PLACE TO
LIVE.
SO I JUST WANTED TO REGISTER MY
OBJECTION AND ON BEHALF OF OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATION, THE
OBJECTION TO THE T7 REZONING.
>> THAT'S IT.
THANK YOU.
THANK.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
>> IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
I MEAN GIVE ME.
YES, WE CAN.
ALL RIGHT.
TERRIFIC.
LUIS VASQUEZ, FIRST WARD
RESIDENT, 40 YEAR OLD RESIDENT
OF THE FIRST WARD JUST SPEAKING
VERY BRIEFLY IN FAVOR
OF REZONING THE TAKE ONE
OF THIS CORRIDOR.
IT FITS WELL WITH THE STATED
GOALS OF THE DEMOCRATIC BIDEN
ADMINISTRATION, HOPEFULLY SOON
TO BE THE HARRIS ADMINISTRATION
AFTER NOVEMBER.
THEY'RE PUSHING FOR MORE
HOUSING TO BE BUILT AND YOU
KNOW, REDESIGNING OUR YOU KNOW,
TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE
TO GO ALONG WITH INCREASED
DENSITY AND THIS THIS KIND
OF REZONING FITS IN WELL WITH
THAT AND IS A CULMINATION
OF CITY COUNCIL'S EFFORTS TO
CONTINUE IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION
AND MAKING MORE OPPORTUNITIES
FOR DEVELOPMENT AND MORE
HOUSING OF ALL KINDS TO BE
DEVELOPED.
>> SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH CITY
COUNCIL KEEP MOVING FORWARD.
THANK YOU.
BRANDON DIMITROV, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
HI, BRANDON CHUCK I WAS IN THE
FOURTH WARD.
I AM ALSO CALLING TO SUPPORT
THE APPLICATION OF TAKE ONE TO
THIS AREA AND OBVIOUSLY A
TRANSIT CORRIDOR PROBABLY THE
MOST FREQUENTLY TRANSIT IN
TRANSIT CORRIDORS.
SO IT SEEMS QUITE APPROPRIATE
TO TRY TO TURN THIS AREA THAT
MOSTLY CONSISTS OF STRIP MALLS
AND PARKING INTO SOMETHING MORE
PRODUCTIVE.
I WOULD LOVE TO SEE SOME MORE
NEIGHBORS HERE AND MORE
PEDESTRIAN AND CYCLISTS SO I'M
LOOKING FORWARD TO THIS CHANGE.
>> THANK THANK YOU, ADAM
UNKOVIC, DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
>> YEAH, THIS IS ADAM
SHUSHKEVICH ALSO FROM THE
FOURTH WARD AND I WOULD JUST
LIKE TO SUPPORT THIS AS WELL.
I THINK THIS IS GREAT SEEING
THIS COME FORWARD AND THIS I
BELIEVE CULMINATES KIND OF THE
INITIAL SET OF CORRIDORS THAT
THAT WE'VE BEEN LOOKING AT FOR
DC ONE AND IT'S GREAT TO SEE US
KIND OF WRAPPING THAT UP.
I HOPE WE WE MOVE FORWARD AND
CONSIDER SOME OTHER CORRIDORS
THAT THAT MIGHT FIT WITH DC ONE
ZONING.
BUT AS FAR AS WASHTENAW AND E
STADIUM GOES, I THINK IT'S IT'S
ABSOLUTELY CLEAR AND OBVIOUS
THAT THIS IS ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT WHAT DC ONE IS
APPROPRIATE FOR AND I THINK WE
SHOULD MOVE FORWARD WITH THIS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I DON'T HAVE ANY CALLERS WITH
THEIR HANDS UP
SEE NO ON THIS
PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE WORK
SESSION MINUTES OF AUGUST 12
AND THE REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
OF AUGUST NINETEEN TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR MAY I PLEASE TO
APPROVE HIS NEXT MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF THE
MINUTES ON FAVOR POST THE
MINUTES ARE APPROVED P ONE AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION ONE
ONE SEVEN FIVE THREE ONE ONE
EIGHT FIVE IS CHAPTER EIGHT
ORGANIZATION OF BOARDS AND
COMMISSIONS OF TITLE ONE
ADMINISTRATION OF THE CODE THE
CITY ARBER PLANNING COMMISSION
MODIFICATION BY COUNCIL MEMBER
THIS SECOND BY COUNTY EMERGENCY
EDWYN DISCUSSION PLEASE OF ONE
ISSUE.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR.
I SPOKE ABOUT THIS IN DETAIL ON
FIRST READING AND I JUST WANT
TO REMIND EVERYONE THAT THE
MAYOR MADE YOUR CHANGE HERE IS
TO LOWER THE MINIMUM VOTE
THRESHOLD REQUIRED TO SEND
ORDINANCES OR ZONING DECISIONS
FORWARD TO COUNCIL WITH CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL.
THE CURRENT STANDARD IS SIX OUT
OF NINE MEMBERS VOTING YES
WHICH IS EFFECTIVELY A
SUPERMAJORITY THE PROPOSED
STANDARD FIVE OUT OF NINE
MEMBERS VOTING YES, STILL A
MAJORITY.
I WANT TO REMIND EVERYONE THAT
PLANNING COMMISSION IS
COMPRISED OF MANY LAND-USE
PROFESSIONALS.
THEY ARE VALUED MEMBERS.
THEIR EXPERTIZE PROVIDES NUANCE
TO OUR THE LAWS THAT WE PASS TO
THEIR DESIGN.
OCCASIONALLY THESE MEMBERS
RECUSE THEMSELVES FROM
DISCUSSION AND DELIBERATION AS
IS APPROPRIATE WHEN THERE'S A
DIRECT INVOLVEMENT OR INTEREST
IN A PROJECT APPROVAL.
>> BUT I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO SAY
THAT THE PLANNING COMMISSION
MEETS REGULARLY THREE WEEKS OUT
OF EVERY MONTH AND THEN THERE
ARE SUBCOMMITTEES THAT MEET
INCLUDING THE ZIBA WHICH IS THE
FOURTH TUESDAY.
SO THE MEMBERS WHO ARE
REPRESENTATIVE ON THAT LOSE ALL
FOUR TUESDAYS.
THEY ARE THEY ARE AN ALL
VOLUNTEER BOARD.
THEY ARE NOT PAID FOR THEIR
SERVICE.
THEY ALL HAVE FULL TIME JOBS.
THEY HAVE RESPONSIBILITIES FOR
CHILDREN AND AGING RELATIVES
AND SO AN ABSENCE OR TWO PLUS A
RECUSAL OR TWO CAN MEAN THAT A
PROJECT GETS A UNANIMOUS VOTE
THAT FALLS SHORT OF WHAT IS THE
CURRENT SIX VOTE THRESHOLD AND
THEN IT IS BROUGHT FORWARD TO
COUNCIL AS A UNANIMOUS YES.
THAT IS A TECHNICAL FEEL THAT'S
JUST INCOHERENT.
SO I THINK IN IN IN RECOGNITION
OF THE MANY COMPETING COMPETING
DEMANDS ON PEOPLE'S TIME, I
THINK THIS IS A VERY REASONABLE
ADJUSTMENT.
>> SO THAT'S THAT FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED.
>> IT IS APPROVED B TO AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION FIVE
THAT TURNED TO CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE OF TITLE FIVE THE CODE OF
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR REZONING
FIFTY NINE PARCELS ON THE
WASHTENAW AVENUE E STADIUM
BOULEVARD AREAS TO TAKE ONE
TRANSIT CORRIDOR DISTRICT MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGGS MY
COUNCILOR IA DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF B TO COUNCILOR BRITISH
.
I WILL BE QUICK BECAUSE I THINK
IT'S BETTER THAT THE WORD REPS
SPEAK TO THIS BUT I WILL SAY
THAT I AM PLEASED TO SEE THIS
FOURTH AND FINAL TAKE ONE
REZONING AND I WANT TO MENTION
THAT ONE BETTER ACHIEVES A
VARIETY OF DIFFERENT GOALS THAT
ARE LISTED IN THE CURRENT
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THAN THE
CURRENT ZONING DOES AND THE
OVERARCHING GOAL IS FOR ALREADY
DEVELOPED AREAS OF THE CITY TO
WORK MORE EFFICIENTLY AND FOR A
BROADER RANGE OF CUSTOMERS.
AS ONE OF THE CALLERS JUST
MENTIONED, RESIDENTS,
EMPLOYERS, EMPLOYEES BUT
EMPHASIS ON RESIDENTS, MORE
RESIDENTS AND THAT THE CHANGE
TO TAKE ONE REFLECTS VALUES
OF THE PRESENT ERA IN
TRANSITION AWAY FROM AN AUTO
CENTRIC ERA FROM THE MID 20TH
CENTURY OF SUBURBANIZED I'LL
STRIP MALLS FEATURES A TAXI ONE
INCLUDE ENABLING HIGHER DENSITY
LAND USE AND REQUIRING SMALLER
FOOTPRINTS SO GREATER
EFFICIENCY TO SUPPORT
PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY LANDSCAPES.
THERE ARE SHORTER DISTANCES
BETWEEN DESTINATIONS AND THOSE
DISTANCES CAN BE MORE
COMFORTABLY CROSSED BY FOOT
THAN THE EXISTING LARGE PARKING
LOT FROM A PREVIOUS ERA.
ANOTHER THING ABOUT THIS ONE
THAT'S REALLY IMPORTANT TO
ALWAYS BRING UP IS THAT IT
FOCUSES STANDARDS ON BUILDING
FORM RATHER THAN USES AND THIS
MAKES IT EASIER TO CONVERT
SHOPPING CENTERS OR OFFICE
COMPLEXES INTO MIXED USE
BUILDINGS.
AND WE WANT THAT WE WANT NOT TO
RIP EVERYTHING DOWN BUT WE WANT
TO BE ABLE TO CONVERT AND
REBUILD.
OK, I THINK THAT THAT IS ENOUGH
TO SAY OUTSOURCING.
I APPRECIATE THE CONCERN
EXPRESSED BY WAY LEADERSHIP IN
WASHINGTON THAT IS UNFORTUNATE
THAT THE PRESIDENT LEFT BEFORE
OUR COMMENTS AND IN RESPONSE TO
THIS AGAIN, THIS IS NOT A NEW
CONVERSATION WE'VE TALKED ABOUT
WHAT T7 CAN MEAN IN OUR
COMMUNITY, THROUGHOUT OUR
COMMUNITY FOR THIS TO BE THE
THE LAST SECTION I THINK REALLY
INDICATES HOW WE'VE RECOGNIZED
HOW DIFFICULT THE CONVERSATION
CAN BE.
THERE'S THIS ASSUMPTION THAT
TEHRAN WOULD INCLUDE ALL OF OUR
BALANDA.
THAT'S NOT THE CASE WHEN WE
SPOKE TO BRECK'S MORE THE OWNER
OF OUR LAND THEY THEMSELVES
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THIS DOES NOT
EXTEND TO THE POND AREA NEXT TO
THE SOUTH POND AREA NEXT TO THE
THE THE WOOD CREEK ASSOCIATION
HOMES AND THAT SIGNIFICANT THE
REALITY IS THAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT THE PARCELS ALONG
WASHTENAW SHOULD THOSE PARCELS
CHANGE IN THE FUTURE.
FOR EXAMPLE, THE OUTCRY OVER
CHICK FIL A COMING BECAUSE
OF OUR TIMING AND DOING THIS NO
ONE CAN LOVE LIVE ABOVE CHICK
FIL A NOW IS CHICK FIL A WOULD
BE A ONE STORY CHICK FIL A.
BUT DOWN THE ROAD IF ARDALAN
DECIDED TO BECOME MULTI FAMILY
MULTIUSE HOUSING LIKE OTHER
AREAS, OTHER MID-SIZED CITIES
WHERE YOU CAN LIVE WITHIN AN
AREA WITH STORES DAY CARE, IT
GIVES US OPTIONS TO UNDERSTAND
HOW PEOPLE WOULD WHO ARE NOW
COMMUTERS OR SERVICE WORKERS
COULD LIVE CLOSER TO WORK IN A
MORE AFFORDABLE AREA CLOSE TO
TRANSIT.
AND IF WE CAN UNDERSTAND THE
THE COMBINED WORK WHERE WE'VE
BEEN DOING WHEN WE'VE TALKED
ABOUT TRANSFORMING TRANSIT
ALONG THIS AREA AND HOW WE'RE
SUPPOSED TO BE REIMAGINING
WASHTENAW LIKE WE'VE BEEN
TRYING TO REIMAGINE I THINK
CLOSE TO TWENTY YEARS, I WOULD
HOPE THAT WE CAN CAPTURE A
GENERATION OF FOLKS WHO WOULD
BE CONSIDERING WHO ARE
CURRENTLY CONSIDERING LIVING IN
THE CITY AND STAYING IN THIS
CITY AND NOT WAITING FOR THE
PARCEL OWNERS TO FIGURE OUT HOW
TO REIMAGINE IT.
WE CAN REIMAGINE IT TO BE MORE
TIMELY AND BE MORE RESPONSIVE.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON, I
SPOKE ON THIS BEFORE BUT I DO
WANT TO REITERATE THAT DC ONE
ISN'T ABOUT AN IMMEDIATE CHANGE
TO THESE QUARTERS BUT RATHER
ABOUT INFLUENCING WHAT COMES
NEXT.
YOU KNOW WE DON'T WANT A STRIP
MALL DEVELOPMENT TO BE REPLACED
WITH MORE STRIP MALL
DEVELOPMENT.
BUT YOU KNOW, I WANT TO SPEND A
LITTLE TIME TALKING DIRECTLY TO
THE HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION THAT
CAME OUT TODAY TO THE MEMBERS
WHO HAVE TAKEN THE TIME TO
WRITE IN AND WE REALLY
APPRECIATE THAT.
I'VE GONE AND I'VE STOOD IN THE
DRIVEWAYS OF THAT NEIGHBORHOOD
ASSOCIATION
A LOT OF FRIENDS IN
THAT NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATION
AS WELL.
SO I'VE BEEN THERE ON MY
PERSONAL TIME AND ONCE I'VE
BEEN ELECTED TO COUNCIL, YOU
KNOW, THEY'RE NOT LYING WHEN
THEY SAY THAT WASHINGTON IS
BUSY AND I'M LOOKING AT THE
RECENT TRAFFIC DATA 38000 IS
THE ANNUAL AVERAGE DAILY TRIPS
ON THAT STRETCH.
THAT'S ABOUT AS MUCH AS ANY
ROAD IN THE CITY.
THE ISSUE IS THAT THAT IS
BECAUSE OF PEOPLE COMMUTING
INTO ANN ARBOR TO COME TO WORK.
IT WOULDN'T YOU KNOW ANY ANY
ADDITIONAL HOUSING THAT THAT
WOULD BE BUILT IN THE LONG TERM
ISN'T GOING TO BRING A LARGE
PERCENTAGE OF THAT THIRTY EIGHT
THOUSAND THAT ROAD WILL STAY
CONGESTED AS IT IS NOW.
IT IS THE MOST ELIGIBLE
CORRIDOR IN THE CITY FOR RAPID
TRANSIT.
SO IT COULD BE IN THE LONG TERM
AN AREA WHERE THE RIDE CAN MAKE
THE SERVICE MORE FREQUENT.
>> THE WHEN IT COMES TO WHEN
YOU THINK ABOUT WHAT WHAT WHAT
THE ALTERNATIVES ARE AN EXAMPLE
FOR EXAMPLE, YOU KNOW, I THINK
IT'S EASY TO BE WORRIED ABOUT
NEW HOMES COMING IN AND THAT
CREATING TRAFFIC A NEW KRISPY
KREME UNDER THE CURRENT ZONING
COULD BE BUILT IN THIS IN THIS
STRIP MALL AND IT COULD BRING
MANY, MANY CARS AND ALL KINDS
OF TRAFFIC AND THAT'S
COMPLETELY ALLOWED THIS ONE
OF THE THINGS ABOUT D.C. ONE
ZONING THAT GETS RID OF DRIVE.
SO I THINK THAT'S IMPORTANT TO
THINK NOT ABOUT NOT ABOUT WHAT
IS THERE NOW OR NOT ABOUT WHAT
IS THERE NOW BUT WHAT WHAT IS
ALLOWING YOU KNOW, IS THIS
BETTER THAN THE ZONING THAT IS
THERE NOW?
AND I THINK ONE IS THE CLEAR
CHOICE COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA.
>> THANK YOU, MAYOR.
AND I'LL BE RELATIVELY BRIEF
BECAUSE WE'VE SPOKEN ABOUT THIS
BEFORE AS WE'VE DONE TCN
REZONING IN OTHER PARTS OF THE
CITY AND TO THE MERITS OF OF
THE ZONING CATEGORY AND WHAT WE
AS A COUNCIL AND I THINK THE
COMMUNITY AS WELL AS ALL OF US
HAVE SPOKEN ABOUT THIS I THINK
AS PART OF OUR CAMPAIGNS FOR
COUNCIL AND ALSO AS WE CONTINUE
TO ENGAGE WITH THE COMMUNITY
WHAT THE DIRECTION WE'VE
RECEIVED AS WELL AND I'M
PERSONALLY EXCITED AS A
REPRESENTATIVE FROM THE
SOUTHERN SIDE OF WASHTENAW AS
THAT'S A WARD DIVIDER FOR US.
YOU KNOW, I'M EXCITED ABOUT
WHAT THIS MEANS FOR THE FUTURE
OF OUR COMMUNITY FOR MAKING
THIS AREA MORE LIVABLE AND
WALKABLE AND FRIENDLY TO TO THE
RESIDENTS WHO LIVE HERE RATHER
THAN SIMPLY BEING A PLACE THAT
WE DRIVE THROUGH ON OUR WAY TO
AND FROM WORK OR ON OUR WAY IN
AND OUT OF THE CITY BUT RATHER
MAKING THIS AN AREA THAT'S
THAT'S A A PLACE WHERE
RESIDENTS CAN LIVE AND WALK AND
AND SHOP AND AND GET AROUND
FREELY AND YOU KNOW, WE HAVE
HEARD CONSTERNATION FROM SOME
ABOUT SOME OF THE BUSINESSES
THAT ARE COMING OR MIGHT BE
COMING BECAUSE THIS TOOK LONGER
THAN WE'D ALL I THINK HOPED.
BUT KNEW WE HAD TO KIND OF GO
STEP BY STEP ALTHOUGH I WILL
SAY I THINK THERE IS STILL A
FOR SALE SIGN WHERE THAT CHICK
FIL A SUPPOSED TO GO.
SO FINGERS CROSSED.
BUT BUT BUT YOU KNOW, I AM
EXCITED ABOUT THIS.
I AM GRATEFUL TO STAFF FOR
THEIR HARD WORK IN MAKING THIS
ANOTHER STEP TOWARDS TOWARDS
REZONING TO TAKE ONE IN THE
AREAS THAT IT MAKES SENSE IN
OUR COMMUNITY.
AND I KNOW THAT THIS WAS NOT
EASY WORK AND IT TOOK A LOT A
LOT OF WORK OVER A LONG PERIOD
OF TIME.
AND SO I'M JUST REALLY GRATEFUL
FOR STAFF'S WORK ON US.
THANK YOU.
SO BRIAN, THANK I STRONGLY
SUPPORT THIS REZONING.
I THINK THAT'S NO SURPRISE WE
ARE IN THE MIDST OF A HOUSING
CRISIS AND I LIKE TO REITERATE
THAT EVERY TIME WE DO ONE
OF THESE BECAUSE IT'S IMPORTANT
TO KEEP IN MIND THAT THAT IS
WHAT'S DRIVING THIS WORK.
SO LIKE OTHER ONE REZONING THIS
ACTION WILL EVENTUALLY
FACILITATE THE CREATION OF MORE
DIVERSE HOUSING OPTIONS MAKING
IT EASIER FOR PEOPLE OF ALL
INCOME LEVELS TO LIVE IN ANN
ARBOR.
>> THIS IS EXACTLY THE TYPE
OF ACTION THAT VICE PRESIDENT
HARRIS IS CALLING ON
MUNICIPALITIES TO UNDERTAKE IN
ORDER TO ADDRESS THE CRISIS.
MOREOVER, BY FOCUSING ON AREAS
WITH EXISTING TRANSIT
INFRASTRUCTURE, WE'RE MAKING A
REALLY SMART INVESTMENT IN OUR
CITIES FUTURE ENCOURAGING
DEVELOPMENT ALONG CORRIDORS
RELEASE THAT REDUCES RELIANCE
ON CARS THEREBY LOWERING
CARBON EMISSIONS AND SUPPORTS A
MORE WALKABLE AND BIKE FRIENDLY
ENVIRONMENT.
THESE ARE KEY TO ZERO GOALS
THAT WE'RE SUPPORTING HERE AND
I DID WANT TO JUST HIGHLIGHT
THIS PASSAGE FROM THE STAFF
REPORT COUNCIL MEMBER DID
ALLUDED TO THIS BUT I THINK
STAFF PUT IT WELL WHILE THE
CURRENT DEVELOPMENT PATTERNS
REPRESENT THE VALUES OF THEIR
AREAS SUCH AS PLENTIFUL VEHICLE
PARKING, NO NUMEROUS VEHICULAR
ACCESS POINTS FROM ROADS LOW OR
BUILDING HEIGHTS AND SEPARATION
OF LAND USES THE T7 DISTRICT
REPRESENTS THE NEED TO MAKE
THESE ALREADY DEVELOPED AREAS
WORK MORE EFFICIENTLY AND FOR A
BROADER RANGE OF CUSTOMERS,
RESIDENTS, EMPLOYEES AND
EMPLOYERS WHICH ARE VALUES
OF THE PRESENT ERA AND WE'RE
GOING TO GET TO THAT SEPARATION
OF LAND USES VALUE AS WELL
LATER THIS AGENDA FURTHER THIS
IS THE RESULT OF YEARS
OF THOUGHTFUL PLANNING AND
SIMILAR REASONINGS THAT WE'VE
UNDERTAKEN.
WILL YOU THAT WE'RE UNDERTAKING
WE'RE DOING IT TO EMBRACE
GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT BUT IN A
RESPONSIBLE WAY AND I SUPPORT
THIS.
I'M SURE ALL MY COLLEAGUES I
DON'T KNOW I'D BE SURPRISED BUT
WE'LL SEE COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS
,THANKS.
I THINK MY OF MY COLLEAGUES
HAVE SAID IT WELL.
I TOO AM EXCITED TO SUPPORT
THIS THIS REZONING.
THIS IS OBVIOUSLY NOT THE FIRST
CORRIDOR THAT WE HAVE RECENTLY
ONE IT IS CERTAINLY ONE OF THE
ONES THAT IS MOST PRIMED TO
BECOME A DC ONE CORRIDOR WE'VE
ALREADY ZONED IN WARD FIVE
ALONG STADIUM BOULEVARD THAT
HAS VERY CLOSE PROXIMITY OF OF
RESIDENTIAL RESIDENCES NEARBY
AND WE ALL KNOW THAT THIS IS
GOING TO BE A LONG ROAD IN
TERMS OF OF RESHAPING WHAT OUR
COMMUNITY LOOKS LIKE.
BUT IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT WE
HAD A SPEAKER SPEAK TO
CONGESTION AND I THINK, YOU
KNOW, THE QUESTION THAT I WOULD
POSE BACK TO THE COMMUNITY
MEMBERS WHO ARE CONCERNED ABOUT
THIS IS WHAT IS THE DO NOTHING
APPROACH LOOK LIKE?
IT CERTAINLY DOESN'T LOOK LIKE
LESS CONGESTION.
HOUSING IS DESPERATELY NEEDED.
WE KNOW THAT.
SO IF IT DOESN'T HAPPEN HERE IT
WILL HAPPEN OUTSIDE OF ANN
ARBOR AND THAT WILL MEAN PEOPLE
ARE FORCED TO TO DRIVE IN.
THIS PROVIDES AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR PEOPLE TO LIVE CLOSE TO
WHERE THEY THEY WORK AND AND
WANT TO BE AND IT PROVIDES THE
MUCH NEEDED HOUSING THAT WE
NEED IN IN OUR COMMUNITY SLOWLY
OVER TIME.
IT ALSO IS ALLOWING US YOU
KNOW, I THINK THE FOLKS ARE
RIGHT TO POINT OUT ISSUES
AROUND TRANSPORTATION BECAUSE
WE KNOW THAT WE HAVE TO WE
CAN'T DO THIS ALONE.
CAN'T JUST BE LAND-USE CHANGES
AND IT CAN'T JUST BE
TRANSPORTATION CHANGES.
WE HAVE TO DO THIS IN TANDEM
AND THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT WE ARE
DOING HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
WE'VE LOOKED AT THE TRUNK
LINES.
WE HAVE TAKEN A NUMBER OF STEPS
ON OUR TRANSPORTATION PLAN
GOALS AND AND THINK THANKS TO
THE VOTERS VAN ARBER WE HAVE
NEW WE HAVE A MILLAGE SUPPORTED
THAT HAS ALLOWED THE RIDE TO
PROVIDE INCREASED SERVICE TO
FOLKS ALREADY USING TRANSIT.
SO THIS IS ALREADY A CORRIDOR
THAT'S GETTING SOME OF THE BEST
TRANSIT SERVICE IN THE CITY.
SO IT WILL BE EXCITING TO TO
SEE NEW PEOPLE SLOWLY BEGIN
MOVING INTO THIS AREA AND BEING
ABLE TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF ALL
OF THE BUSINESSES THAT ARE
THERE IN WALKABLE LOCATION FOR
THE DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBERS
ON THERE WAS A MENTION
OF SUNLESS CORRIDORS.
I THINK A BETTER EXAMPLE
OF WHAT WE WOULD LIKE TO
ANTICIPATE COMING IS WHAT WE
SEE AT WEST GATE.
RIGHT.
SO WHEN I WAS ON THE LIBRARY
BOARD AS A LIBRARY TRUSTEE FROM
2016 TO 2020 AND WEST GATE THE
WEST GATE BRANCH WAS PUT IN
THAT BECAME THAT BECAME AN
INSTITUTION THAT KEPT
NEIGHBORING BUSINESSES IN THAT
IN THAT SHOPPING COMPLEX.
NOW IF THERE WAS HOUSING ABOVE
IT, IT WOULD HAVE EVEN BE
BETTER.
>> BUT THAT'S WHAT KEPT MAX
THERE.
THAT'S WHAT KEPT LOCAL
BUSINESSES.
NICHOLAS AND ALSCHULER BOOKS
THEIR THAT TRAFFIC IS ACTUALLY
RESIDENT FREQUENTING HOMETOWN
BUSINESSES.
>> SWEETWATERS IS INSIDE THAT
BRANCH.
>> RIGHT.
SO INSTEAD OF ENVISIONING
SUNLESS CORRIDORS, I WOULD HOPE
THAT WE CAN ENVISION A WESKER
OVER AND WASHTENAW WITH HOUSING
ABOVE IT WHERE YOU'RE WALKING
TO LOCAL BUSINESSES FREQUENTING
LOCAL BUSINESSES AND USING
TRANSIT.
>> SO WE ARE TRAFFIC, WE SPEAK
ABOUT TRAFFIC WHO IS TRAFFIC
TRAFFIC OUR COMMUTERS TRAFFIC,
OUR COLLEAGUES, PEOPLE WHO ARE
COMING IN HERE THROUGH SCHOOLS
OF CHOICE, THEY ARE NOT
STRANGERS COMING TO OUR CITY
FOR NO REASON.
THEY ARE CONTRIBUTING MEMBERS
OF OUR COMMUNITY WHO IN SOME
INSTANCES WHERE DISPLACED AND
ORIGINALLY FROM ANN ARBOR I
WOULD LOVE TO GIVE THEM A
FIGHTING CHANCE TO BE ABLE TO
LIVE SPEND THEIR MONEY HERE,
LIVE HERE, SPEND THEIR MONEY
HERE AND RAISE THEIR CHILDREN
HERE AND FOR YOUNG
PROFESSIONALS TO BE ABLE TO
WORK HERE AND I DON'T KNOW
BRING US TO OUR FULL POTENTIAL.
SO I THE IDEA THAT REZONING AND
ZONING IS SOMETHING TO FEAR IS
UNFORTUNATE BECAUSE WE HAVE
EXAMPLES AROUND THE COUNTRY IN
SMALLER CITIES WE HEAR FROM
ENVIRONMENTALISTS WHO KNOW THAT
THIS BENEFITS OUR ENVIRONMENT
OR ENVIRONMENT, OUR
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENTS AND
OUR HOUSING COMMITMENTS.
THIS IS ALL LINE WE'VE
DEDICATED WHAT WE'VE PROMISED
TO THE CITY FOR THE DISCUSSION
I'VE EVER POSED.
>> IT IS APPROVED SEE ONE AN
ORDINANCE MEAN CHAPTER FIFTY 75
LEAF BLOWERS OF TITLE SIX THE
CODE OF THE CITY BANABA MOVE BY
COUNCILMAN DENHA SEEN BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WHAT'S IN
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF ONE
COUNCIL NO BRAKES.
I APOLOGIZE BUT I FORGOT TO
SUBMIT A QUESTION ON THIS SIDE
I USUALLY TRY TO SEND SOMETHING
IN ADVANCE BUT I'M JUST
WONDERING IF STAFF MIGHT BE
ABLE TO SPEAK A LITTLE A LITTLE
BIT OF AN INTRODUCTION TO THIS
AND WHY IT WAS IT'S NECESSARY.
YEAH MR DELACOURT IS JOINING US
ON ZOOME
AND EVERYBODY HERE IS
YES WE CAN THANK YOU MAYOR
COULD I WAS IN THE MIDDLE
OF TRANSITIONING IN HERE.
WAS THERE A SPECIFIC QUESTION I
APOLOGIZE IF THERE WAS COULD IT
BE REPEATED?
>> YEAH.
SO I APPRECIATE SORRY THAT TO
JUST THAT SOMETHING EARLIER I
KNOW WE WE RECEIVED A GENDER
RESPONSE QUESTIONS BUT THERE IF
YOU COULD SPEAK A LITTLE BIT
MORE TO WHY WHY AN EXCEPTION IS
NEEDED AND JUST PROVIDE A
LITTLE BIT OF A STAFF ANSWER ON
THIS MEETING MYSELF I CAN
CERTAINLY SPEAK TO GENERALITIES
AND THEN MR. LONG IS HERE TO
TALK ABOUT ANY SPECIFICS THAT
MAY NEED TO BE ANSWERED.
I THINK IN GENERAL THE BEST WAY
TO DESCRIBE IT IS AFTER THE
ORDINANCE WENT INTO EFFECT, NAP
STAFF DID SOME TESTING WITH THE
ELECTRIC LEAF BLOWERS AND MADE
THE DETERMINATION THAT THEY
WERE NOT ABLE TO DO THE JOB IN
A MANNER THAT WAS CONSISTENT
WITH WHAT THEY BELIEVE TO BE
THE SAFEST PRACTICES NOR IN A
MANNER THAT ALLOWED THEM TO
CONDUCT AND BURN ENOUGH AREA TO
KEEP UP WITH WHAT IS THE
MINIMAL DEMANDS TO MAKE THE
PROGRAM EFFECTIVE CURRENTLY.
I MEAN IF WE HAD OUR OUR OUR
WAY WE WOULD LIKE TO BURN
PROBABLY THREE HUNDRED ACRES IN
THE YEAR A YEAR IN THE CITY TO
BE AS EFFECTIVE AS WE COULD.
WE STRUGGLE TO GET TO ONE
HUNDRED ACRES A YEAR AND REALLY
WITH THE REDUCTION IN TIME AND
SAFETY THAT IT WOULD TAKE WITH
THIS SWITCH WE WOULD BE DOWN
WELL BELOW 50 ACRES A YEAR AND
PRETTY MUCH RENDER THE PROGRAM
IN FACT OF BOTH FROM FROM A
QUANTITY STANDPOINT SAFETY
STANDPOINT WE WOULD STOP THERE
AND LET ME CORRECT ME OR ADD
ANYTHING ADDITIONAL WE MAY FEEL
IS NECESSARY AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU.
WE HAVE THE ONLY CORRECTION
SPECIFICALLY IS THAT WE WOULD
STAND TO GAIN SIGNIFICANT
ECOLOGICAL BENEFITS BY BURNING
UP TO TWO HUNDRED ACRES A YEAR
AND WE CURRENTLY STRUGGLE TO
REACH THE ONE HUNDRED ACRE
THRESHOLD WITH OUR CURRENT
EQUIPMENT AND MORE SPECIFICALLY
THE ELECTRIC BLOWERS TO MODELS
THAT WERE TESTED BY FIELD STAFF
DETERMINED THAT THERE WERE TWO
TO THREE TIMES LESS EFFICIENT
WHICH WOULD SIGNIFICANTLY
PROLONG THE BURN PREPARATION
TIME NEEDED TO SAFELY PREPARE
THE SITE FOR A BURN THAT DAY,
THUS DECREASING THE TOTAL HOURS
AVAILABLE IN A DAY TO BURN
WHICH WOULD THEN NARROW IN THE
TARGET OF ONE HUNDRED ACRES
THAT WE CURRENTLY HAVE OR THE
DELIVERABLE OF ONE HUNDRED
ACRES THAT WE ARE CURRENTLY
AVERAGING EVEN FURTHER DOWN TO
WHAT MR. DELACOURT DESCRIBED AS
ABOUT THAT 40 TO 50 ACRE
DELIVERABLE WITH THE CHANGE IN
THE TOOLS AVAILABLE TO US.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH SINCE YOU
BOTH ARE HERE AND GIVEN WHAT
YOU JUST SAID IT I FEEL AS
THOUGH WE NEED TO CLARIFY OR
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE WORK OF A
CONTROLLED BURN IS NOT
EQUIVALENT TO THE WORK THAT I
DO ACTUALLY WITH A MANUAL BREAK
TO CLEAR LEAVES FROM MY LAWN.
YES, THANK YOU.
PLEASE GO.
YEAH MR. DOG.
>> YEAH WITH THE PROCESS IS A
LITTLE BIT AND THE IMPORTANCE
OF HAVING THE APPROPRIATE
EQUIPMENT YEAH I APPRECIATE THE
CARE BECAUSE IT REALLY IS A
VERY DIFFERENT OPERATION FROM
WHAT ONE MIGHT DO ON THEIR
PRIVATE PROPERTY FOR TYPICAL
LAND MANAGEMENT FOR PRESCRIBED
FIRE WE ARE GOING OUT TO THE
CITY'S PARKS EARLY IN THE
MORNING FLAGGING A BURN UNIT.
THOSE UNITS VARY IN SIZE COULD
BE LESS THAN AN ACRE.
IT CAN BE AS MUCH AS FIVE OR
MORE ACRES IN SIZE.
>> AND THEN ONCE WE HAVE
FLAGGED THAT UNIT WE USE
BLOWERS TO BLOW A BURN BREAK
WHICH IS A BREAK IN THE
AVAILABLE FUEL OR THE LEAF
LITTER ON THE GROUND.
THE DEBRIS THAT IS BURNED AND
CARRIES THE BURN THROUGHOUT THE
UNIT.
IT IS PARAMOUNT TO HAVE A BREAK
AROUND THE BURN UNIT SO THAT
THE BURN DOES NOT SPREAD BEYOND
THAT BREAK.
AND SO WITH THE BLOWERS WE ARE
CREATING THAT PERIMETER FOR
SAFETY PURPOSES AROUND THE UNIT
AND IT TAKES CURRENTLY HOURS
DEPENDING ON THE SIZE OF THE
UNIT BUT WHAT WE WOULD STAND TO
ADD EVEN MORE HOURS DOUBLE OR
TRIPLE THE AMOUNT OF TIME
NECESSARY TO BURN THAT SAME OR
TO BLOW A BREAK IN THAT SAME
UNIT IF WE SWITCH UNDER CURRENT
TECHNOLOGIES AND WE WANT TO ADD
FROM A MANAGEMENT STANDPOINT
WHO ARE MANAGEMENT STANDPOINT,
THIS IS UNQUESTIONABLY THE
OPERATION THAT KNAPP AND PARKS
DO ON A REGULAR BASIS THAT WE
HAVE THE LEAST ROOM FOR ERROR
AND OBVIOUSLY IN THE AREAS WE
DO UNDERTAKE THIS SAFETY AND
OPERATIONAL EFFECTIVENESS IS
PARAMOUNT TO WHAT WE DO.
WE DON'T TAKE THIS OPERATION
LIGHTLY AND THERE'S NOT A LOT
OF ROOM FOR ERROR IN WHAT WE DO
AND HOW WE DO SO HAVING THE
APPROPRIATE TOOLS AVAILABLE AND
HAVING THEM BE ABLE TO OPERATE
IN A MANNER THAT WE KNOW
UNDERSTAND IS CONSISTENT IS IS
AGAIN IS PARAMOUNT TO MAKING
SURE THIS IS AN EFFECTIVE
OPERATION.
RACKMAN.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I WOULD LIKE TO HAVE SOME
CLARIFICATION THE WAY THAT I
READ THIS IS THAT RESIDENTS
WOULD ALSO BE ABLE TO USE A GAS
POWERED LEAF BLOWER FOR THIS
PURPOSE.
I KNOW THAT RESIDENTS AND OTHER
PROPERTIES OTHER THAN CITY
PROPERTIES USE CONTROLLED BURNS
FOR NATURAL LANDSCAPE IMPACT.
I'VE HAD IT DONE IN MY HOUSE
BEFORE SO COULD YOU JUST
CLARIFY OR CONFIRM
AS I
UNDERSTAND IT?
YEAH, WE WROTE THE ORDINANCE
AMENDMENT TO INCLUDE ANY
PRIVATE CONTRACTORS THAT WERE
SECURING THE NECESSARY BURN
PERMITS WITH THE FIRE
DEPARTMENT TO ALLOW FOR THE USE
OF EXPLOSIVES FOR SIMILAR
SAFETY REASONS.
>> EXCELLENT.
THANK YOU.
AND I GUESS I JUST ALSO WANTED
TO, YOU KNOW, REMIND US ALL I
WAS READING THROUGH THE
ORIGINAL ORDINANCE AGAIN WITH
THE RED LINE CHANGES WE HAVE
EXCEPTIONS FOR USING TURBINE
LEAF BLOWERS FOR GOLF COURSES
AND OTHER RECREATIONAL FIELDS.
SO I PERSONALLY FEEL LIKE THIS
PURPOSE IS, YOU KNOW, VERY
IMPORTANT TO OUR STEWARDSHIP
GOALS AND THAT'S WHY I'M
COMFORTABLE WITH THIS EXCEPTION
.
>> WE HAVE OTHER EXCEPTIONS
THAT I WOULD SAY ARE LESSER.
SO THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION.
COUNCILOR QUINNELL, I JUST
WANTED TO CLARIFY THAT ALLOWING
THESE THE GAS POWERED LEAF
BLOWERS FOR THIS PURPOSE ISN'T
ACTUALLY GOING TO HELP US MEET
OUR GOALS.
WE'RE STILL GOING TO BE BY MY
MATH ABOUT FIFTY PERCENT SHORT
OF THAT.
>> IS THAT CORRECT?
YEAH, I WOULD I WOULD SAY IT'S
PROBABLY ABOUT THE MORE OUR
GOAL EVERY YEAR IS TO WITH THE
CAPACITY WE HAVE AND FUNDING IS
TO GET TO ONE HUNDRED OPTIMALLY
TO MAKE THE KIND OF IMPACT WE
WOULD LIKE WE'D LIKE TO BE ABLE
TO GET TO TWO HUNDRED CANCER
OUTBREAKS.
SO I APPRECIATE THIS AND THIS
IS A PROGRAM THAT I REALLY
SUPPORT.
I THINK IT'S GREAT.
I LIKE TO SEE US GET TO THAT
TWO HUNDRED AND I BUT I AM
STRUGGLING A LITTLE WITH ABOUT
THIS THE FEEDBACK THAT WE'VE
RECEIVED CERTAINLY WHEN IT
COMES TO SAFETY ISSUES ALL
OF THAT MAKES SENSE TO ME AND I
CAN IMAGINE THE NEED FOR HAVING
GAS POWERED BLOWERS THERE FOR
SORT OF SAFETY SAFETY REASONS
FROM THE EFFICIENCY STANDPOINT
IS WHERE I'M STRUGGLING WITH IT
BECAUSE WE'VE HEARD THAT
EFFICIENCY ARGUMENT FROM FROM
FOLKS IN THE PRIVATE SECTOR AS
WELL.
AND WE KNOW AS WE TRANSITION TO
ELECTRIC THAT THIS IS THAT
THERE ARE THERE ARE OR WE DO
THINGS MORE SUSTAINABLY IN
OTHER AREAS THAT THERE ARE
THERE ARE TRADEOFFS AND IT
BECOMES MORE CHALLENGING AND
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT SOMETHING
THAT'S GOOD ECOLOGICALLY AND SO
THIS BECOMES A PARTICULARLY
CHALLENGING CONVERSATION TO
HAVE.
BUT IF WE'RE NOT WILLING TO
RECOGNIZE THAT OUR COST MIGHT
SHIFT, THAT OUR STAFFING NEEDS
MIGHT CHANGE TO ADDRESS THE
EFFICIENCY ISSUES OF THIS
BUT
WE'RE ASKING FOR FOLKS IN THE
PRIVATE SECTOR OR RESIDENTS TO
DO SO.
I'M THERE'S A BIT OF A
DISCONNECT AND SO THAT IS
THAT'S JUST WHAT I'M PERSONALLY
STRUGGLING WITH AND I'M SURE
THAT CITY STAFF HAS HIS HAS
STRUGGLED WITH THIS A BIT AS
WELL BUT ULTIMATELY CAME
FORWARD WITH THIS.
BUT I'M NOT QUITE SURE WHERE
I'M GOING TO VOTE ON THIS
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL OR
DENHA.
THANKS MAYOR.
I AM GOING TO SUPPORT THIS AND
I THINK THAT THIS IS YOU KNOW,
I THINK I'VE ALSO STRUGGLED
WITH COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGGS'S
VERY COMMON AND NOT IN WEIGHING
MY SUPPORT OF THIS BUT IN
WEIGHING WHETHER
OR NOT I WAS
PLANNING TO BRING AMENDMENTS
AGAIN THAT I KNOW PROBABLY
WOULDN'T HAVE SUPPORT AT THIS
TABLE.
BUT I THINK THAT THIS GOES BACK
TO THE FACT THAT WE ARE REALLY
SETTING A SEPARATE STANDARD FOR
US THAN WE ARE FOR A NUMBER
OF OUR RESIDENTS IN THAT WE'RE
WE'RE HEARING THAT, YOU KNOW,
THERE ARE PARTICULARLY WITH THE
COMMERCIAL LEAF BLOWERS THERE
IS A DIFFERENCE IN TERMS
OF THEIR EFFICIENCY AND THEIR
ABILITY TO HANDLE THESE THESE
BIG AREAS.
AND SO WHEN WE'RE LOOKING AT
AND THE FOLKS WE'VE BEEN
HEARING FROM OUR LARGE CONDO
ASSOCIATION OR NEIGHBORHOOD
ASSOCIATIONS THAT HAVE THESE
BIGGER CONTRACTS, THE STRAIN
THAT WE'RE PUTTING ON
COMMERCIAL OPERATORS WHO ARE
WHO ARE DOING SOME OF THESE
CLEARING'S, I THINK IT'S NOT
ONLY THEY HAVE TOLD US THAT THE
THE TECHNOLOGY OR THE
CAPABILITIES ARE NOT THERE YET
BUT WE'RE HEARING THAT FROM OUR
OWN STAFF AS WELL.
AND SO I THINK THERE'S
SOMETHING THAT WE NEED TO KEEP
IN THE BACK OF OUR MIND.
I'M WILLING TO SUPPORT THIS
BECAUSE THIS IS YOU KNOW, FOR
THE ECOLOGICAL BENEFIT.
THIS ISN'T KIND OF CLEANING UP
OR MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE
PROPERTY TO GET LEAVES OR GRASS
CLIPPINGS OFF BUT RATHER THE
ACTUAL ECONOMIC ECOLOGICAL
BENEFIT AND RESTORATION THAT
COMES WITH A CONTROLLED BURN.
BUT BUT I DO THINK THAT YOU IT
IS WORTH NOTING THAT THIS IS A
CHALLENGE THAT WE HAVE WHERE WE
ARE WRITING AN EXCEPTION FOR
THE CITY COUNCIL RACKMAN I
APPRECIATE THE COMMENTS BUT I
DISAGREE THAT THIS IS AN
EXCEPTION FOR THE CITY.
I THINK THIS IS AN EXCEPTION
FOR USE AND WE HAVE OTHER
EXCEPTIONS IN HERE ALREADY LIKE
GOLF COURSES.
SO TO ME THIS IS ABOUT A
PARTICULAR ACTIVITY THAT WE
THINK IS WORTHY OF EXCEPTION,
ONE THAT THE CITY ENGAGES IN
AND OTHERS DO TOO SIMILAR TO
THE RECREATIONAL FACILITIES AND
THE GOLF COURSES.
>> SO I JUST DON'T SEE THE
INCONSISTENCY OR THEIR
DISCUSSION.
>> ROLL-CALL VOTE PLEASE
STARTING WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
OF DENHA COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
YES.
TRANSFER OUTSIDE ONE YES.
MAYOR TAYLOR YES.
>> COUNCILOR IHR YES.
>> COUNCILOR AKMAN YES.
COUNCILOR BRIGGS NO COUNCILOR
CORNELL NO COUNCILOR DISH YES.
COUNCILOR HARRISON YES.
COUNCILOR SONG YES.
SIR.
>> WATSON YES.
MOTION CARRIES SEE TO AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTIONS FIVE
ONE SIX THREE AND FIVE ONE
SEVEN SEVEN OF CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE OF TITLE FIVE OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY THE ANN ARBOR
TRANSIT CORRIDOR.
ADDITIONAL STANDARDS PARKING
STRUCTURES MOVE BY COUNCILOR
PRUDISH SECOND BY COUNCILOR
GHAZI MEDWIN DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF C TWO COUNCIL BRITISH.
I AM NOT GOING TO TRY TO SPEAK
TO THIS BECAUSE IT'S TECHNICAL
AND TRY AS I HAVE.
IT HAS BEEN DIFFICULT FOR ME TO
BOIL IT DOWN SO IF YOU HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS I WELCOME YOU TO PUT
THEM TO STAFF.
>> I CAN SPEAK TO THE NEXT ITEM
BUT HONESTLY I WOULD MANGLE
THIS ONE.
THE DISCUSSION OR FAVOR POSTS
APPROVED C THREE IN AUDIENCE TO
AMEND SECTION FIVE ONE EIGHT
FIVE DOTA TWO FIVE TO NINE AND
FIVE THREE SEVEN OF CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE DEVELOPMENT CODE OF
TITLE FIVE OF THE COALITION
OF ANN ARBOR HYD EXCEPTIONS
REVIEWS DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS
FINISHED GRADE MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER OR SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DIS DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF C THREE SHE IS GOOD AS TO
HER WORD CUTOVER DISH.
OK THERE ARE MANY COMPONENTS
HERE AND I'M ONLY GOING TO TALK
ABOUT ONE OF THEM UNLESS OTHERS
COME UP AND THAT IS THE CHANGE
TO HIDE EXCEPTIONS BECAUSE THIS
IS SOMETHING THAT WE'VE BEEN
HEARING A LOT ABOUT ON PLANNING
COMMISSION AND IT'S VERY IT'S
EXTREMELY CONSISTENT WITH ALL
OF OUR GOALS ON COUNCIL.
SO THERE ARE A NUMBER OF THINGS
THAT INCREASE THE HEIGHT OF A
BUILDING WITHOUT PROVIDING
ADDITIONAL INHABITABLE SPACE
SUCH AS ELEVATORS, ESCALATORS
AND STAIRWELLS WHICH OVERRUN
THE TOP OF THE ROOFTOP OF A
BUILDING.
SO THE IDEA HERE IS THAT
BUILDINGS IN MIXED USE
NONRESIDENTIAL AND SPECIAL
PURPOSE ZONING DISTRICTS WILL
BE ALLOWED AN ADDITIONAL TWELVE
FEET TO ACCOMMODATE THESE
COMMONPLACE NECESSARY ELEMENTS
AND THOSE TWELVE FEET WILL NOT
COUNT AGAINST THE CALCULATION
OF BUILDING DENSITY OR IF THEY
ARE THIS MEANS THAT THE
BUILDINGS WILL ESSENTIALLY
THESE PROJECTS ARE GIVEN A
RESTORED TWELVE FEET THAT THEY
CURRENTLY HAD TO COUNT AGAINST
THEIR DENSITY MEASURE WHICH
GIVES THEM THE POSSIBILITY FOR
AN ADDITIONAL STORY OF HOUSING
AND THEY DO NOT NEED TO GO TO
THE ZIEBA AND THEY DO NOT NEED
TO SEEK ANY OTHER VARIATION
THAT IS TIME CONSUMING AND
RAISES THE EXPENSE OF A PROJECT
SO THIS IS CONSISTENT WITH MANY
OF OUR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
GOALS WHICH IS A SIMPLIFIED
PROCESS NOT ENGAGE IN
EXTRANEOUS DELAY CAUSING
EXEMPTIONS AND AND IT IS
OBVIOUSLY CONSISTENT WITH OUR
DESIRE TO SEE MORE HOUSING
PRODUCED IN EFFICIENT WAYS IN
THE CITY.
THERE ARE OTHER ASPECTS
OF THIS.
IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS PLEASE
RAISE THEM FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL
.
>> THANK YOU.
I JUST WANT TO THANK STAFF FOR
BRINGING THESE FORWARD.
I THINK THAT THIS THIS WORK I'M
ASSUMING FLO'S OUR CALL TO
STAFF TO REDUCE INEFFICIENCIES
TO MAKE IT EASIER TO TO DEVELOP
NEW HOUSING IN THE CITY IN
RESPONSE TO OUR HOUSING CRISIS.
>> AND I CAN SAY JUST TO THE
ONE ISSUE THAT COUNCIL MEMBER
JUST RAISED I HAVE HAD PERSONAL
CONVERSATIONS WITH ARCHITECTS
AND DEVELOPERS WHO HAVE
PROPOSED PROJECTS IN IN MY WARD
IN THE FOURTH WARD WHO HAVE
FOUND THAT HEIGHT EXCEPTION TO
BE ONEROUS TO THE POINT WHERE A
PROJECT DOESN'T EVEN PENCIL OUT
IF THEY CAN'T GET THE
EXCEPTION.
OFTENTIMES THEY ARE GETTING THE
EXCEPTION BUT AGAIN IT ADDS
COST TO THE PROCESS AND IT'S
JUST COMPLETELY UNNECESSARY.
SO I APPRECIATE THIS AND I'LL
SUPPORT TONIGHT FOR THE
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED.
>> THEY ARE APPROVED DC ONE
RESOLUTION OR OTHER IT IS
APPROVED DC ONE RESOLUTION TO
CONSIDER ALLOWING MORE
FLEXIBILITY FOR OCCUPATIONS IN
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS BY
COUNCILPERSONS.
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER HARRIS
IN DISCUSSION WITH THE DC ONE
CONTROVERSAL WITH I WANT TO
THANK COUNCIL MEMBERS DISH AND
REGS FOR LEADING THE WAY WITH
SOME AMENDMENTS AND I THINK IT
REALLY POINTS TO HOW I CAME.
I CAME TO THIS IN AN ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT SENSIBILITY AND
RESPONDING TO FOLKS WHO HAVE
HOME BUSINESSES AND WHO FELT
LIKE THEY WERE THERE COULD BE A
LITTLE BIT MORE FLEXIBILITY IN
THE CHANGES THAT WE MADE
ORDINANCES FOR HOME OCCUPIED
BUSINESSES IN THE PAST TWO
YEARS.
AND THEN I THINK THERE CAME A
REMINDER THAT IN PLANNING IN
THE WORLD OF PLANNING AND THE
PLANNING COMMISSION WHICH I DO
NOT SIT ON THERE HAVE ALREADY
BEEN ONGOING DISCUSSIONS AND I
APPRECIATE THAT REMINDER THAT
WE CAN COLLABORATE ON THIS WORK
IN THE RESOLUTIONS IN A WAY
THAT DOES NOT OUTWEIGH OR
OVERRULE ALL THE WORK THAT'S
ALREADY BEEN DONE IN THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
SO I WANT TO GIVE A LITTLE
BACKGROUND ON THIS.
I THINK IF WE TRAVEL BACK IN
TIME THROUGH 2009 THERE USED TO
BE SOMETHING CALLED SELWA CAFE
,A NEIGHBORHOOD BREAKFAST SPOT
THAT WAS RUN BY VOLUNTEERS AND
I THINK THAT WAS AROUND FOR
FOUR YEARS UNTIL NEIGHBORS
COMPLAINED ABOUT TRAFFIC AND
WHETHER IF IT WAS A BUSINESS OR
NOT IT WAS A VOLUNTEER LED AND
IT WAS IN SUPPORT OF LOCAL FOOD
.
I BROUGHT MY TODDLER SON TO
THESE AND I LOVE HOW IT WAS
CREATIVE WAS IN SUPPORT
OF NON-PROFITS RUN BY A SOCIAL
WORKER AND REALLY CREATED A
SENSE OF COMMUNITY AND I WOULD
LOVE TO REVISIT THAT IDEA IF WE
CAN DO THIS IN OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS AGAIN TO
ENCOURAGE SMALL BUSINESSES AND
ANOTHER EXAMPLE IS GRETCHEN'S
HOUSE MOUNT VERNON LOCATION IN
THE NEIGHBORHOOD SMALL HOUSE.
THAT'S WHERE THIS CHAIN OF I
THINK SEVEN OR EIGHT LOCATIONS
STARTED IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD AS
A US I THINK CHILDCARE CENTERS
ARE SPECIAL EXEMPT USE RIGHT
EXCEPTIONS.
BUT I THINK IT'S GIVEN THE
CHILDCARE CRISIS IT'S WORTH
REVISITING AND UNDERSTANDING IS
ARE THERE WAYS THAT WE CAN BE
MORE FLEXIBLE AND ENCOURAGE
MORE CHILDCARE BUSINESSES SO IF
WE COULD USE TWO OR THREE MORE
GRETCHEN'S HOUSE CHAINS IN THE
CITY BUT IF YOU LOOK AT THE
MOUNT VERNON LOCATION IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD, THAT'S WHERE IT
STARTED AND I LOVE THE IDEA
THAT WE OUR COMMUNITY CAN HELP
ENCOURAGE THE SMALL BUSINESSES
THAT SERVES THE NEEDS OF OUR
COMMUNITY AND FUTURE NEEDS
OF THE COMMUNITY.
SO THANK YOU FOR THE AMENDMENTS
.
>> I THINK MAYBE THE COUNCIL
MEMBERS CAN SPEAK TO THE
AMENDMENTS BUT THE BULK OF THIS
IS REALLY TO ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO
THINK CREATIVELY ABOUT HOME
BUSINESSES AND HELP ENTERPRISES
.
SORAYA, THANK YOU.
THANKS.
FIRST OF ALL THE COUNCIL
MEMBERS SONG FOR DOING THE
HEAVY LIFTING ON THIS.
THIS IS IN MY MIND IT IS ABOUT
EMPOWERING OUR RESIDENTS.
IT'S ABOUT EMPOWERING
EMPOWERING THE ENTREPRENEURIAL
FOLKS IN OUR COMMUNITY TO BE
ABLE TO MORE EASILY AND
EFFICIENTLY AND COST
EFFECTIVELY START A BUSINESS
AND AT THE SAME TIME PROVIDE
GREAT BENEFITS TO THEIR
NEIGHBORHOODS.
PERSONALLY I LIVE IN THE LATIN
NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH DOESN'T HAVE
A LOT THAT WE CAN WALK TO AND
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT MY
NEIGHBORS HAVE BEEN ASKING FOR
SINCE I
FIRST RAN FOR COUNCIL
AND I'M REALLY DELIGHTED TO BE
BRINGING THIS FORWARD TONIGHT.
>> I JUST KNOW BEYOND YOU KNOW,
WE LOOK AT SOME OF OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT HAVE THE
LIKE SELMA USED TO BE BUT THE
JEFFERSON MARKET OR THE YOU
KNOW, THE MARKET AND WATER HILL
THESE ARE BELOVED INSTITUTIONS
AND AND THEY'RE BELOVED FOR A
REASON.
OUR COMMUNITY GATHERING PLACES
AND THEY ALLOW RESIDENTS TO GET
OUT AND WALK AROUND AND HAVE A
PURPOSE AND GO MEET AND GATHER
AND YOU I KNOW I'VE GOT THIS
NEW ACTIVITY TRACKER AND
WHENEVER I GO DOWNTOWN I
DEFINITELY HIT MY STEPS FOR THE
DAY.
NO PROBLEM.
AND WHEN I GO TO A CITY I BLOW
IT OUT OF THE WATER, YOU KNOW,
TWENTY THOUSAND STEPS IN A DAY
I WANT THAT FOR OURSELVES FOR
OUR RESIDENTS IT'S IT PROMOTES
HEALTH.
IT SUPPORTS OUR TWO ZERO GOALS.
IT GETS US OUT OF OUR CARS.
IT GETS IT GETS US OUT WALKING
AROUND AND MEETING EACH OTHER
AND IN IT AND IT'S ABOUT
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AS WELL.
SO THERE ARE JUST SO MANY GOOD
THINGS WRAPPED UP IN THIS.
I'M DELIGHTED TO SUPPORT IT
TONIGHT COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
I TOO AM DELIGHTED TO SUPPORT
THIS TONIGHT.
I JUST WANT TO THANK OUR
COUNCIL MEMBERS SONG AND ON THE
WORK THAT SHE DID ON THIS
SUPPORTING HOMEOWNERS RUNNING
COTTAGE BUSINESSES FROM THEIR
HOMES IS A STEP FORWARD FOR ANN
ARBOR.
I THINK ABOUT HOW IN ADDITION
TO BEING A SCHOOL NURSE FOR
PUBLIC SCHOOLS, MY MOTHER RAN A
BUSINESS FROM HER HOME AND HOW
HISTORICALLY BLACK MEN AND
WOMEN HAVE DONE HAIR IN THEIR
HOMES.
I MYSELF WHEN I WAS YOUNGER I
USED TO GET MY HAIR DONE ON THE
OLD WEST SIDE.
NOW KNOWN AS WATER HILL BUT I
THINK OF IT AS THE OLD WEST
SIDE RECENTLY A VERY TALENTED
YOUNG LADY TRAVELED TO MY HOME
TO BRAID MY HAIR.
I DID SPEAK TO HER ABOUT
GETTING A BUSINESS OFF THE
GROUND AND YOU KNOW, HOWEVER WE
KNOW THAT THERE ARE OBSTACLES
WHEN IT COMES TO TRYING TO
OPERATE A BUSINESS OUT OF A
STOREFRONT WHICH INCLUDE
ADDITIONAL CAPITAL INCLUDING
THE SNOW CAPITAL WHICH CAN BE
DAUNTING FOR SOME, ESPECIALLY
THOSE FROM MARGINALIZED
COMMUNITIES.
I SAW THIS MYSELF PERSONALLY
AND I WAS IN POWER.
YOU MANAGER AT DISABILITY
NETWORK WATCHING ON MONROE IN
LIVINGSTON COUNTY, FORMERLY
KNOWN AS THE CENTER FOR
INDEPENDENT LIVING BUT
UTILIZING A SPACE ONE ALREADY
HAS OR BUILDING AN ACCESSORY
UNIT FOR A HOME BASED BUSINESS
COULD BE TRANSFORMATIVE FOR
FAMILIES OR INDIVIDUALS WORKING
HARD TO RUN A SUCCESSFUL
BUSINESS IN CITIES ACROSS THE
COUNTRY SMALL BAKERIES,
COFFEE SHOPS, TAX PROFESSIONAL
DESIGNERS, THERAPISTS, CHILD
CARE PROFESSIONALS, MASSAGE
THERAPISTS AND LOCK TITIAN'S
OPERATE FROM HOME SUCCESSFULLY
.
SO IT'S TIME FOR ANN ARBOR TO
EMBRACE THIS FOSTERING
ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND COMMUNITY.
AND SO I'M REALLY EXCITED TO
SUPPORT TONIGHT AND BE A PART
OF BE PART OF THIS.
THANK YOU COUNTS NO BREAKS.
THANKS.
YEAH I'M REALLY EXCITED THAT
COUNCIL MEMBERS AND SPONSORS
BROUGHT THIS FORWARD.
>> THIS IS I THINK JUST ALONG
THE LINES OF WHAT WE WANT TO DO
FOR OUR COMMUNITY.
IT'S ESSENTIAL WE'VE WE TALK A
LOT ABOUT AFFORDABLE HOUSING
BUT WE DON'T SPEND A LOT
OF TIME THINKING ABOUT
SOLUTIONS OR TALKING ABOUT
SOLUTIONS FOR AFFORDABLE RETAIL
AND I THINK THIS IS CENTRAL TO
THAT.
IT'S ALSO CENTRAL TO I THINK A
LOT OF WHAT PEOPLE ARE LOOKING
FOR IN TERMS OF THE FUTURE
OF ANN ARBOR.
>> THEY WANT IT TO BE UNIQUE
AND HAVE CHARACTER AND THAT'S
WHAT HOME BASED BUSINESSES AT
THEIR CORE ARE, RIGHT?
>> THEY'RE THEY'RE THEY'RE
THEY'RE THEY'RE VERY LOCAL,
OF COURSE.
AND AND THEY JUST HAVE A LOT
OF CHARACTER AND INTEREST TO
OUR NEIGHBORHOODS AND THEY
OF COURSE MAKE THEM MORE
WALKABLE BECAUSE THERE'S MORE
DESTINATIONS TO GO TO.
SO EXCITED TO SUPPORT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO MOVE THE
ATTATCHED AMENDMENTS THAT ARE
ATTACHED.
>> IS THERE A SECOND SECOND I
COUNCILOR ARE ARE THESE ARE
AMENDMENTS FRIENDLY?
>> THEY'RE FRIENDLY COUNCILOR
BRIDGES STILL THE FLOOR RIGHT.
SO THE AMENDMENTS REALLY WERE
ABOUT JUST KIND OF INTEGRATING
IT ALONGSIDE THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLANNING PROCESS RIGHT NOW IN
TERMS OF SOME OF THE THINGS
THAT HAVE STRUCK OUT ASPECTS
AROUND, YOU KNOW, CALLING
ADDITIONAL COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE DO
REALLY WELL IN THE CITY IS HAVE
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT BUILT INTO
OUR PROCESSES ALREADY AND SO
WE'LL HAVE PUBLIC HEARINGS AND
PLANNING COMMISSION AND CITY
COUNCIL AND WE'VE GOTTEN AN
INPUT WE'RE GETTING INPUT TO
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING
PROCESS OF AND OF WHICH, YOU
KNOW, THIS MAY BE SOMETHING
THAT MAY BE COMING UP IN THAT
PROCESS THAT THAT MAY HELP TO
INFORM FUTURE ORDINANCE
AMENDMENTS AS WELL.
SO I THINK WE'VE GOT THAT
COVERED AND YOU KNOW, IT JUST
ALLOWS US STAFF TO BE ABLE TO
BALANCE THE VERY MANY THINGS
THAT THEY'RE PUTTING ON THEIR
PLATE SO THAT WE ARE ABLE TO
MOVE FORWARD WITH OUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING PROCESS
AND I PUT THAT ON THE BACK
BURNER WHILE WE MOVE THIS
FORWARD.
BUT I THINK IT'S CENTRAL TO TO
WHAT WE'RE TRYING TO DO OR WHAT
I HOPE TO TO SEE OUT OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING PROCESS
AS WELL.
SO I'M HAPPY TO SEE THIS MOVE
FORWARD AND I MIGHT GET A STORY
AS WELL BUT I'LL HOLD THAT FOR
FUTURE COMMENTS.
COUNCILOR MCCONNELL, THANK YOU.
FIRST OF ALL, I WANT TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THANK MY COLLEAGUES
WHO BROUGHT THIS FORWARD
COUNCIL MEMBER SONG YOU DID A
LOT OF HEAVY LIFTING ON THIS
AND I WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE ALL
THE LOVE FOR WARD FIVE THAT I
HEARD IN THESE DISCUSSIONS
BETWEEN GRETCHEN WILSON WHERE
THE WARD FIVE THE GOAT I
STARTED MY FIRST BUSINESS IN A
GARAGE AND I DON'T KNOW IF IT
WAS A GOAL BUT I DID IT AND
ENDED UP GROWING THAT BUSINESS
HIRING PEOPLE AND CREATING JOBS
THROUGH THAT AND IF I THINK
THAT THERE'S A LOT OF HUGE
OPPORTUNITY THAT WE REALLY
REALIZING RIGHT NOW BY HAVING
THE RESTRICTIONS IN PLACE SO
THIS I THINK MY COLLEAGUES HAVE
ALL SPOKEN TO THIS REALLY WELL
BUT THIS JUST EMPOWERS MORE
ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND LOWERS THE
COST TO STARTUP WHICH IS HUGE.
>> IT DOESN'T MATTER THE SIZE
OF YOUR BUSINESS WHEN YOU'RE
LOSING MONEY, PAYING INTEREST
AS SOON AS YOU START YOUR
BUSINESS IT REALLY MAKES IT
HARD FOR YOU TO GET TO THE
POINT WHERE YOU'RE SUCCESSFUL
HIRING PEOPLE WHICH IS IS
IMPORTANT.
I JUST WANTED TO NOTE THAT WE
HAD LONG CONVERSATIONS EARLIER
ABOUT ONE AND WHAT WE'RE TRYING
TO ACCOMPLISH WITH THIS THIS
WITH THAT THIS IS SO
COMPLEMENTARY TO ME IT REDUCES
VEHICLE MILES.
IT'S IN LINE WITH OUR
ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS.
IT CREATES ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY
ALL ALL IN ONE THAT'S JUST IT'S
SO EXCITING TO ME AND I'M PROUD
TO BE A CO-SPONSOR AND TO
SUPPORT THIS TONIGHT AND I
CAN'T WAIT TO SEE WHAT WORD
FIVE RESIDENTS COME UP WITH TO
MAKE OUR NEIGHBORHOODS MAKE OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD A LITTLE MORE
BUSINESS FRIENDLY.
>> I'M EXCITED OF OUR DENHA
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I WILL ECHO THE BANKS AROUND
THE TABLE FOR THE CO-SPONSORS
FOR BRINGING THIS FORWARD.
I THINK YOU KNOW FROM THE
SOUNDS OF IT, WE ALL KNOW ONE
OF THOSE LOCAL RESIDENTS WHO
WANTS TO GET SOMETHING STARTED.
I THINK WHAT I'M MOST EXCITED
ABOUT IS REALLY THE THE
POTENTIAL SUPPORT FOR FOR NEW
ENTREPRENEURS IN THIS THIS
PROCESS.
COUNCIL MEMBER GHAZI EDWYN AND
I HAD THE PRIVILEGE OF OF
HOSTING ONE OF OUR COFFEE HOURS
IN A NEIGHBORHOOD WITH A LOCAL
COFFEE CART THAT'S LOCAL TO
THAT NEIGHBORHOOD AND THEY
SPOKE TO US ABOUT HOW MUCH THEY
WOULD LOVE TO BE ABLE TO GET A
BRICK AND MORTAR SET BUT JUST
HOW DIFFICULT AND EXPENSIVE
THAT IS WHEN THEY'RE GETTING
STARTED AND MAYBE THIS ISN'T
THE RIGHT SOLUTION FOR THEM
BECAUSE THEY HAVE A
NEIGHBORHOOD GATHERING PLACE
AND THAT PART WORKS FOR THEM IN
THEIR NEIGHBORHOOD.
BUT FOR A LOT OF OTHER
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT MIGHT NOT
HAVE THAT YET THIS COULD BE THE
START OF SOMETHING LIKE THAT
AND I THINK IT'S REALLY
EXCITING WHAT THE POTENTIAL IS
AND WHAT MIGHT COME.
YOU KNOW, I'VE SPOKEN BEFORE
ABOUT HOW MUCH I THINK WE WOULD
ALL LOVE TO HAVE YOU KNOW, IN
OUR GIFT'S OR ARUZ OR SOMETHING
IN EACH OF OUR NEIGHBORHOODS
AND THIS IS HOW WE GET
SOMEWHERE LIKE THAT BY HAVING
THOSE PLACES THAT ARE WALKABLE
AND AND ABLE TO BE SUPPORTED.
AND SO OBVIOUSLY THEY WOULDN'T
BE THAT BIG FROM THE START.
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT THE FACT
THAT DENSITY IS WHAT SUPPORTS
THOSE BUSINESSES BUT BUT FOR
SOME FROM FOR NEW BUSINESSES,
NEW ENTREPRENEURS I THIS IS
REALLY EXCITING.
SO THANK YOU AGAIN TO THE
SPONSORS FOR BRINGING FORWARD
AND I WOULD LOVE TO BE ADDED AS
A CO-SPONSOR PLEASE FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
COUNCILOR HARRISON WARD FIVE IS
REALLY GREAT BUT SHOUT OUT TO
WARD ONE BECAUSE I GOT MY HAIR
DONE IN THE WARD ONE SECTION
OF THE OLD WEST SIDE AND THANK
YOU.
I THINK ALL YOUR AWARDS ARE
WONDERFUL COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG'S BUT ESPECIALLY WARD
FIVE.
I ALSO WOULD LIKE TO BE ADDED
AS A CO-SPONSOR AND JUST TO ADD
ANOTHER STORY OF HOW OUR
ORDINANCES AS WE'RE ADAPTING
THEM ARE ALLOWING LOCAL
BUSINESSES TO GROW.
SO I'M SURE YOU GUYS HAVE BEEN
NOTICING ME BECOMING WAY MORE
BUFF.
>> THAT IS BECAUSE I GOT GO TO
GYM ON THE PARK WHICH IS ON 7TH
AND AT THE CORNER ONE OF THE
ENTRANCES TO WEST PARK AND
ORIGINALLY AT THE OWNER OF THAT
WAS OPERATING A GYM OUT OF A
VERY SMALL GYM OUT OF HIS
GARAGE AND THAT GREW A LITTLE
BIT AND THEN WE HAD OUR
ORDINANCE CHANGES AND THAT
ALLOWED HIM TO ACTUALLY BUILD A
NEW STRUCTURE THAT WAS ACTUALLY
A SMALL YOU KNOW, SMALL
STRUCTURE THAT ACTUALLY WORKS
WELL THAN HIS PREVIOUS GARAGE
FOR FOR A LITTLE GYM.
BUT NOW IT'S GROWN TO THE
EXTENT THAT IT'S STILL A REALLY
LOVELY ADDITION TO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
BUT A LOT OF THESE THINGS THAT
WE HAVE INCORPORATED INTO THIS
YOU KNOW, THINGS FOR FOR
PLANNING COMMISSION TO CONSIDER
OUR LIMITATIONS TO GROWING AND
YOU
OBVIOUSLY THIS NEEDS TO BE
DONE THOUGHTFULLY AND
CAREFULLY.
BUT I THINK THERE ARE WAYS TO
PROVIDE ADDITIONAL FLEXIBILITY
THAT ALLOWS FOR BUSINESSES TO
BUT TO NOT HIT A TO BE ABLE TO
CONTINUE TO GROW AND THRIVE AND
BE NICE COMPLIMENTARY ADDITIONS
TO OUR NEIGHBORHOOD AND ALLOW
US ALL TO GET MORE FOR THE
COUNCIL MEMBER A YEAH, I'D JUST
LIKE TO BE ADDED AS A
CO-SPONSOR COUNCIL MEMBER SONG
.
>> SO A REMINDER THAT A LOT
THIS IS IS ALREADY ALLOWED AND
WHEN WE FIRST REVISITED HOME
OCCUPIED BUSINESSES I REMEMBER
THERE WERE TWO A TROMBONE
TEACHER WHO HAD A HUGE SIGH
OF RELIEF BECAUSE HE WAS
WORRIED ABOUT THE HOME VISITS
LIMIT TO TEN DAILY HOME VISITS
IN THE AREA AROUND THE AGE
OF COVID POST ISH WHERE WE KNOW
DELIVERY TRUCK DRIVERS AND
AMAZON DRIVERS DRIVE VERY
FREQUENTLY DOWN OUR ROADS AND
BEFORE AND SOMEHOW OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS ARE OK.
SO BEYOND A HUGE SIGH OF RELIEF
FOR MUSIC TEACHERS AROUND AND
AROUND THE CITY.
YOU KNOW, I WOULD LOVE TO SEE
US, YOU KNOW, GO BACK TO OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS AND SAY THIS HAS
BEEN ON THE BOOKS FOR A WHILE
BUT IF YOU NEED TO ACTUALLY
PICTURE THIS CAN LOOK LIKE HERE
ARE SOME EXAMPLES AND SOME NEW
LANGUAGE WAS NECESSARY
COMMERCIAL UNITS AND THAT COULD
LOOK LIKE SPACE BEYOND YOUR
GARAGE OR SPACE BEYOND YOUR
SHED.
SO AS PLANNING COMMISSION
REVISITS THIS, HOPEFULLY WE CAN
ALSO HAVE I GUESS THE VISUAL
UNDERSTANDING WHAT THIS CAN
LOOK LIKE AND IF SIGNAGE OR IF
A ADDITIONAL PART TIME EMPLOYEE
COULD BE USE SO THIS IS THE
FLEXIBILITY AROUND THE
RESOLUTION AND NOT ONLY JUST
SUPPORTING EXISTING AND
HOPEFULLY ENCOURAGING NEW
BUSINESSES BUT ACTUALLY TRYING
TO LIKE VISION WHAT THAT
ENVISION WHAT THAT MIGHT
PHYSICALLY LOOK LIKE WITHIN OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS.
YEAH I GUESS THAT'S IT.
I'M REALLY OH THE LAST THING
YES.
I'M SO SORRY.
IN GRADUATE SCHOOL I USED TO
RUN A PROGRAM CALLED
INTERNATIONAL FAMILIES OUTREACH
PROJECT AND BECAUSE OF HOW
VISAS ARE A LOT OF ACADEMIC
SPOUSES AREN'T ALLOWED TO WORK.
>> SO ONE OF THE THINGS
ACTIVITIES THAT SPOUSES HAD WAS
BAKING AND COOKING CLASSES AND
THESE WERE EXTRAORDINARY.
THEY'RE JAPANESE MOMS IN THIS
COMMUNITY WHO MAKE EXQUISITE
BAKED GOODS AMONG THEM AND ALSO
KOREAN BUNTINE SIDE DISHES.
THERE'S SO MANY HOME BUSINESSES
WITHIN OUR SMALL ETHNIC
COMMUNITIES THAT ARE THRIVING
COMMUNITIES.
WITHIN OUR SMALL ETHNIC
WE STARTED THIS MEETING TALKING
COMMUNITIES.
ABOUT HOW, YOU KNOW, OUR
WE STARTED THIS MEETING TALKING
COMMUNITIES ARE REALLY
ABOUT HOW, YOU KNOW, OUR
SUFFERING FROM DIVISION AND
COMMUNITIES ARE REALLY
HATE FOOD REALLY BRINGS PEOPLE
SUFFERING FROM DIVISION AND
TOGETHER AND I'M HOPING THAT WE
HATE FOOD REALLY BRINGS PEOPLE
CAN OVERCOME THESE DIVISIONS
TOGETHER AND I'M HOPING THAT WE
AND KNOW EACH OTHER IN OUR
CAN OVERCOME THESE DIVISIONS
NEIGHBORHOODS.
AND KNOW EACH OTHER IN OUR
>> SO THANK YOU, COUNCILOR
NEIGHBORHOODS.
RAGAZZI GARCIA.
>> SO THANK YOU, COUNCILOR
>> YEAH, I JUST WANT TO ECHO
RAGAZZI GARCIA.
EVERYTHING THAT EVERYONE HAS
>> YEAH, I JUST WANT TO ECHO
ALREADY SAID ESSENTIALLY NO.
EVERYTHING THAT EVERYONE HAS
AND IT REALLY TO COUNCIL MEMBER
ALREADY SAID ESSENTIALLY NO.
SONG'S POINT ABOUT BRINGING IN
AND IT REALLY TO COUNCIL MEMBER
A COMPONENT OF EDUCATION INTO
SONG'S POINT ABOUT BRINGING IN
THIS AS WELL.
A COMPONENT OF EDUCATION INTO
I KNOW THAT WE HAVE PLANS IN
THIS AS WELL.
REGARDS TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
I KNOW THAT WE HAVE PLANS IN
AND MAYBE THIS COULD ALSO BE A
REGARDS TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMPONENT OF THAT OF JUST IN
AND MAYBE THIS COULD ALSO BE A
REGARDS TO EDUCATING FOLKS
COMPONENT OF THAT OF JUST IN
ABOUT WHAT YOU CAN DO AND HOW
REGARDS TO EDUCATING FOLKS
YOU CAN EXPAND A BUSINESS AND
ABOUT WHAT YOU CAN DO AND HOW
FOOD DOES BRING PEOPLE
YOU CAN EXPAND A BUSINESS AND
TOGETHER.
FOOD DOES BRING PEOPLE
I GET MOST OF MY MEALS FROM AN
TOGETHER.
AMAZING INDIAN CATERER BECAUSE
I GET MOST OF MY MEALS FROM AN
WHO'S A MOM BECAUSE I DO NOT
AMAZING INDIAN CATERER BECAUSE
KNOW HOW TO COOK LIKE THAT AND
WHO'S A MOM BECAUSE I DO NOT
YEAH, I REALLY THINK THAT THIS
KNOW HOW TO COOK LIKE THAT AND
IS SOMETHING THAT JUST GOING TO
YEAH, I REALLY THINK THAT THIS
HELP HELP OUR NEIGHBORHOODS AND
IS SOMETHING THAT JUST GOING TO
OUR COMMUNITIES AND I'M I'M
HELP HELP OUR NEIGHBORHOODS AND
REALLY EXCITED TO SUPPORT IT
OUR COMMUNITIES AND I'M I'M
AND I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO BE
REALLY EXCITED TO SUPPORT IT
ADDED AS A CO-SPONSOR.
AND I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO BE
>> THANK YOU.
ADDED AS A CO-SPONSOR.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION ALL IN
>> THANK YOU.
FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION ALL IN
DC TWO RESOLUTION TO APPOINT
FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED
KIMBERLY MEYER AS THE CITY
DC TWO RESOLUTION TO APPOINT
OF ANN ARBOR INTERIM CONTROLLER
KIMBERLY MEYER AS THE CITY
AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
OF ANN ARBOR INTERIM CONTROLLER
MOVED BY COUNCILOR CORNELL'S
AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
SECOND BY COUNCILOR.
MOVED BY COUNCILOR CORNELL'S
OUR DISCUSSION PLEASE HAVE DC
SECOND BY COUNCILOR.
TO FAVOR POSED IS PROVED BE ONE
OUR DISCUSSION PLEASE HAVE DC
RESOLUTION TO ACCEPT THE NEW
TO FAVOR POSED IS PROVED BE ONE
CITY OF ANN HARBOR FLAG
RESOLUTION TO ACCEPT THE NEW
REDESIGN IN HONOR OF THE TWENTY
CITY OF ANN HARBOR FLAG
TWENTY FOUR BICENTENNIAL
REDESIGN IN HONOR OF THE TWENTY
CELEBRATION MOVE BY COUNCILOR
TWENTY FOUR BICENTENNIAL
HARRISON SECURED BY COUNCIL
CELEBRATION MOVE BY COUNCILOR
MEMBER WATSON DISCUSSION PLEASE
HARRISON SECURED BY COUNCIL
OF DB ONE COUNCILOR BRIGGS WON
MEMBER WATSON DISCUSSION PLEASE
THE SEAT.
OF DB ONE COUNCILOR BRIGGS WON
IT WAS EXCITING TO SEE OUR NEW
THE SEAT.
FLAG TODAY.
IT WAS EXCITING TO SEE OUR NEW
HAPPY TO SUPPORT THIS AND I
FLAG TODAY.
JUST HAD A FEW QUESTIONS.
HAPPY TO SUPPORT THIS AND I
I JUST HAD A QUESTION AROUND
JUST HAD A FEW QUESTIONS.
WHAT WE ARE PLANNING ON
I JUST HAD A QUESTION AROUND
PRODUCING.
WHAT WE ARE PLANNING ON
I SAW A LITTLE BIT IN THE IN
PRODUCING.
THE MEMO BUT ARE WE ARE FOLKS
I SAW A LITTLE BIT IN THE IN
GOING TO BE ABLE TO PURCHASE
THE MEMO BUT ARE WE ARE FOLKS
THEIR OWN FULL SIZED FLAG TO
GOING TO BE ABLE TO PURCHASE
FLY OUTSIDE THEIR HOUSE AND
THEIR OWN FULL SIZED FLAG TO
STICKERS AS YOU NOTED,
FLY OUTSIDE THEIR HOUSE AND
POTENTIALLY A LITTLE EXTRA?
STICKERS AS YOU NOTED,
WHAT'S OUR WHAT'S OUR VISION IN
POTENTIALLY A LITTLE EXTRA?
TERMS OF PRODUCTS I WANT THEM
WHAT'S OUR WHAT'S OUR VISION IN
ON?
TERMS OF PRODUCTS I WANT THEM
YES, WELL, BROADLY SPEAKING, I
ON?
MEAN I'M GOING TO SAY WORDS A
YES, WELL, BROADLY SPEAKING, I
GREAT CITIES HAVE GREAT FLAGS
MEAN I'M GOING TO SAY WORDS A
AND FLAGS ARE THE FOCAL POINT
GREAT CITIES HAVE GREAT FLAGS
AND THE BOTH THE CREATOR AND
AND FLAGS ARE THE FOCAL POINT
THE RECIPIENT OF CIVIC PRIDE
AND THE BOTH THE CREATOR AND
AND SO AS AN INITIAL MATTER I
THE RECIPIENT OF CIVIC PRIDE
SUSPECT THE MUNICIPAL
AND SO AS AN INITIAL MATTER I
ORGANIZATION IS GOING TO HAVE
SUSPECT THE MUNICIPAL
FLAGS FOR SALE AND CERTAINLY
ORGANIZATION IS GOING TO HAVE
LAPTOP STICKERS FOR
FLAGS FOR SALE AND CERTAINLY
DISTRIBUTION.
LAPTOP STICKERS FOR
MY STRONG SUSPICION IS THAT
DISTRIBUTION.
FLAGS WILL WILL FURTHER BLOSSOM
MY STRONG SUSPICION IS THAT
AND LAPEL PINS I AM I AM
FLAGS WILL WILL FURTHER BLOSSOM
ASSURED OF COUNCILOR BRADY
AND LAPEL PINS I AM I AM
STILL BEFORE ALL GET COUNCIL
ASSURED OF COUNCILOR BRADY
MEMBER WATSON.
STILL BEFORE ALL GET COUNCIL
YEAH, SORRY
.
>> WELL YOU KNOW
CONGRATULATIONS TO MR SHIRT FOR
THE WINNING DESIGN I WILL ADMIT
I DID VOTE FOR THAT ONE SO
SIMILAR TASTES I THINK VEX
LOGICALLY SPEAKING I'D LIKE TO
THANK MAYOR TAYLOR FOR
SPEARHEADING THIS INITIATIVE IN
MANY WAYS AND BEING A FAN
OF ALL SORTS OF CREATORS
OF CIVIC PRIDE AND I THINK THE
FLAG CAN BE ONE OF THEM AND I'D
LIKE TO BE ADDED AS A
CO-SPONSOR COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
>> I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO BE
ADDED AS A CO-SPONSOR AND SINCE
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS HAS
BROUGHT UP THE QUESTION
OF MERCH, I WOULD LIKE TO PUT
IN A PLUG FOR COFFEE MUGS.
COUNCILOR WHICH COUNCIL MEMBER
REALLY DOES.
THANK YOU.
I JUST WANTED TO SPEAK BRIEFLY
ABOUT THIS BECAUSE I KNOW THIS
HAS BEEN A LONG TIME COMING AND
A I KNOW IT'S BEEN A VISION
OF THE MAYORS FOR A LONG TIME
BUT IT'S BEEN GETTING WORKED ON
FOR A LONG TIME AS WELL BECAUSE
THIS CONVERSATION AT LEAST WAS
TAKING PLACE.
IT MAY HAVE STARTED BEFORE BUT
AT LEAST WAS TAKING PLACE WHEN
I WAS SERVING ON THE COMMISSION
AND THAT WAS A WHILE AGO.
AND SO I JUST WANT TO CREDIT
ALL OF THE PEOPLE WHO HAVE PUT
TIME AND ENERGY INTO THIS
PROJECT.
I THINK I THINK ALL OF US WERE
SMILING TODAY WHEN THAT FLAG
WAS UNVEILED AND I THINK I HOPE
THAT IN TIME IT WILL BE THAT
FOCAL POINT FOR OUR CITY THAT
THAT UNIFYING SYMBOL FOR US.
AND I THINK ALL OF US KNOW WHEN
YOU HAVE A GOOD CITY FLAG,
ANYBODY WHO'S VISITED CHICAGO
SEES THEM EVERYWHERE.
SO SO I WOULD LOVE TO SEE THEM
ALL OVER OUR CITY AT SOME POINT
AS WELL AS A POINT OF CIVIC
PRIDE BUT ALSO IN PARTICULAR IN
ADDITION TO THANKING THE PUBLIC
OUR COMMISSIONERS I WANTED TO
THANK COMMISSIONER JOHN
GUTOWSKI WHO WHO REALLY WHEN I
WAS SERVING ON THE COMMISSION
TOOK THIS ON AS BEING WILLING
TO KIND OF LEAD THIS FROM THE
OUTSET AND AT A TIME WHEN NOT
EVERYONE WAS TOTALLY SURE WHAT
THE ASK WAS OF THEM, HE
EMBRACED IT AND WAS WILLING TO
STEP UP AND START THAT PROCESS
AND SO FROM THEN ALL THE WAY
THROUGH NOW THANKS TO EVERYBODY
WHO HAD A PART IN THIS AND
OBVIOUSLY TO THE DESIGNER IT
WAS A GREAT DESIGN COUNCILOR
ASONG I THINK ONE OF THE MOST
RECOGNIZABLE SYMBOLS VIETNAM IS
ACTUALLY THE ANN ARBOR DISTRICT
LIBRARY LOGO.
>> SO IF YOU SEE THERE EMERGE
FROM THE SUMMER GAMES, YOU KNOW
EVERYONE WEARS THOSE SHIRTS.
>> IT HAS ALL THE BRAND NAMES
ON IT AROUND TOWN AND THE HATS
BLANKA THERE IS ALL KINDS
OF THINGS INCLUDING SOCKS
ACTUALLY.
YES.
THAT SAY LOOK AT THESE LIBRARY
SOCKS.
>> SO IF WE'RE THINKING ABOUT
ENTREPRENEURS AND POTENTIAL
BUSINESSES, THIS MIGHT BE THE
STARTING POINT WITH THE NEW
FLAG MY MY ENCOURAGEMENT IS
THAT WE MAYBE PUT A LITTLE
FRIENDLY COMPETITION WITH THE
LIBRARY AND SEE HOW FAR WE CAN
GET WITH OUR OWN FLAG.
>> IT'LL BE HARD TO BEAT THE
SOCKS THOUGH.
YES.
WE WILL FURTHER DISCUSSION FOR
MY PART I JUST WANT TO YOU
KNOW, COUNTER DENHA RECOLLECTS
TO MY ATTENTION THE TO THE
PUBLIC ART COMMISSION UPON
WHICH HE AND COUNCILOR HARRISON
HAVE SERVED IN THE PUBLIC ART
COMMISSION DID AND THE COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT IN SERVING
HAVEN'T HAD AN IMPORTANT PART
OF GETTING THE PROCESS UNDERWAY
IN SHEPHERDING IT ALONG.
YOU KNOW, IT HASN'T BEEN THE MY
TOP PRIORITY OR A TOP MUNICIPAL
PRIORITY BUT BUT DARN IT, IT'S
A GOOD THING.
AND SO I'M VERY GLAD AND
DELIGHTED THAT THIS HAS GOTTEN
TO BE GOTTEN TO BE WHERE WE ARE
TODAY.
GREAT CITIES SHOULD HAVE A
GREAT FLAG AND WE DO NOW AND SO
JUST SO GLAD THAT IT'S MOVING
FORWARD.
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FLAVOR
WALPOLE'S IT IS APPROVED DEBE
TO RESOLUTION TO PERMANENTLY
RELOCATE PRECINCT TO FOURTEEN
FROM PALMER COMMONS ONE HUNDRED
TO WASHINGTON AVENUE TO ANGELL
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SIXTY EIGHT
SOUTH UNIVERSITY AVENUE
BEGINNING WITH THE NOVEMBER
FIVE TWENTY TWENTY FOUR GENERAL
ELECTION MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON SECOND BY COUNCIL NO
SONG DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DB2
COUNCILOR WATSON
.
>> SO THIS COMES TO US FROM THE
ELECTION COMMISSION.
THE CLERK'S OFFICE HAS BECOME
AWARE THAT MANY RESIDENTS IN
THE FORMER TO FIFTEEN PRECINCT
FIND THE NEW POLLING LOCATION
AT PARMER INCONVENIENT AND
DIFFICULT TO NAVIGATE FOR THOSE
UNFAMILIAR WITH CAMPUS VOTERS
NOT AFFILIATED CAMPUS HAVE ALSO
EXPRESSED CONCERNS REGARDING
PARKING AND OTHER ACCESS
ISSUES.
IN ADDITION, MANY STUDENT
VOTERS ASSIGNED TO THIS
LOCATION NOW REGISTER AND VOTE
IN ADVANCE OF ELECTION DAY
UTILIZING THE CITY'S SATELLITE
OFFICE AT AT OUMA WHICH IS KIND
OF RIGHT ACROSS THE STREET AND
WOULD NOT BE NEGATIVELY
AFFECTED BY A CHANGE
OF LOCATION.
THE ANGEL ELEMENTARY LOCATION
HAS HOSTED TWO PRECINCTS IN THE
PAST SO THERE'S NO PROBLEM
THERE AND STILL IS WITHIN
WALKING DISTANCE OF THE
COMMONS.
SO IT IS THE ELECTION
COMMISSION'S FEELING THIS WON'T
NEGATIVELY IMPACT STUDENTS AND
I THINK IT SOLVES A LOT
OF PROBLEMS AND SO THAT'S WHY
THE CLERK HAS THE CLERK OF THE
ELECTION COMMISSION HAS BROUGHT
YOU THIS TONIGHT FOR THE
DISCUSSION ON FAVORITE POST.
>> IT IS APPROVED IN COURT.
WE HAVE THE PLEASURE OF A
CLOSED SESSION TODAY.
>> NO, THANK YOU, MA'AM.
WE HAVE BEFORE THE CLERKS ARE
PART OF A COMMUNICATIONS
PETITIONS AND REFERRALS.
I HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE CLERK'S SUPPORT
MOVE BY COUNCILOR DEAR SECONDED
TO COUNCILOR DENHA DISCUSSION
OF THE CLERK'S REPORT ON
FAVORITE POSED THE CLERKS
REPORT IS APPROVED ARE THEIR
COMMUNICATION TODAY FROM OUR
CITY ATTORNEY?
>> NO THANK YOU MAYOR.
IN THE ABSENCE OF DISCUSSION
FROM OUR CITY ATTORNEY AND IN
OBSERVING THAT THERE IS NO
PUBLIC COMMENT OVERFLOW MAY
HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN.
PLEASE MOVE BY COUNCILOR
SAMEWAY COUNCILOR DISH
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POES WE'RE
ADJOURNED